The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Hound of the Baskervilles, by Arthur Conan Doyle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Hound of the Baskervilles

Author: Arthur Conan Doyle

Release Date: October, 2001 [eBook #2852]
[Most recently updated: June 27, 2021]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Shreevatsa R, and David Widger

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES ***

cover 



THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES

Another Adventure of Sherlock Holmes


by A. Conan Doyle




My dear Robinson,


    It was to your account of a West-Country legend that this tale owes its
inception. For this and for your help in the details all thanks.



Yours most truly,        

A. Conan Doyle.    



Hindhead,

    Haslemere.



Contents


 Chapter 1  Mr. Sherlock Holmes
 Chapter 2  The Curse of the Baskervilles
 Chapter 3  The Problem
 Chapter 4  Sir Henry Baskerville
 Chapter 5  Three Broken Threads
 Chapter 6  Baskerville Hall
 Chapter 7  The Stapletons of Merripit House
 Chapter 8  First Report of Dr. Watson
 Chapter 9  The Light upon the Moor [Second Report of Dr. Watson]
 Chapter 10 Extract from the Diary of Dr. Watson
 Chapter 11 The Man on the Tor
 Chapter 12 Death on the Moor
 Chapter 13 Fixing the Nets
 Chapter 14 The Hound of the Baskervilles
 Chapter 15 A Retrospection




Chapter 1.
Mr. Sherlock Holmes


      Mr. Sherlock Holmes, who was usually very late in the mornings,
      save upon those not infrequent occasions when he was up all
      night, was seated at the breakfast table. I stood upon the
      hearth-rug and picked up the stick which our visitor had left
      behind him the night before. It was a fine, thick piece of wood,
      bulbous-headed, of the sort which is known as a “Penang lawyer.”
      Just under the head was a broad silver band nearly an inch
      across. “To James Mortimer, M.R.C.S., from his friends of the
      C.C.H.,” was engraved upon it, with the date “1884.” It was just
      such a stick as the old-fashioned family practitioner used to
      carry—dignified, solid, and reassuring.

      “Well, Watson, what do you make of it?”

      Holmes was sitting with his back to me, and I had given him no
      sign of my occupation.

      “How did you know what I was doing? I believe you have eyes in
      the back of your head.”

      “I have, at least, a well-polished, silver-plated coffee-pot in
      front of me,” said he. “But, tell me, Watson, what do you make of
      our visitor’s stick? Since we have been so unfortunate as to miss
      him and have no notion of his errand, this accidental souvenir
      becomes of importance. Let me hear you reconstruct the man by an
      examination of it.”

      “I think,” said I, following as far as I could the methods of my
      companion, “that Dr. Mortimer is a successful, elderly medical
      man, well-esteemed since those who know him give him this mark of
      their appreciation.”

      “Good!” said Holmes. “Excellent!”

      “I think also that the probability is in favour of his being a
      country practitioner who does a great deal of his visiting on
      foot.”

      “Why so?”

      “Because this stick, though originally a very handsome one has
      been so knocked about that I can hardly imagine a town
      practitioner carrying it. The thick-iron ferrule is worn down, so
      it is evident that he has done a great amount of walking with
      it.”

      “Perfectly sound!” said Holmes.

      “And then again, there is the ‘friends of the C.C.H.’ I should
      guess that to be the Something Hunt, the local hunt to whose
      members he has possibly given some surgical assistance, and which
      has made him a small presentation in return.”

      “Really, Watson, you excel yourself,” said Holmes, pushing back
      his chair and lighting a cigarette. “I am bound to say that in
      all the accounts which you have been so good as to give of my own
      small achievements you have habitually underrated your own
      abilities. It may be that you are not yourself luminous, but you
      are a conductor of light. Some people without possessing genius
      have a remarkable power of stimulating it. I confess, my dear
      fellow, that I am very much in your debt.”

      He had never said as much before, and I must admit that his words
      gave me keen pleasure, for I had often been piqued by his
      indifference to my admiration and to the attempts which I had
      made to give publicity to his methods. I was proud, too, to think
      that I had so far mastered his system as to apply it in a way
      which earned his approval. He now took the stick from my hands
      and examined it for a few minutes with his naked eyes. Then with
      an expression of interest he laid down his cigarette, and
      carrying the cane to the window, he looked over it again with a
      convex lens.

      “Interesting, though elementary,” said he as he returned to his
      favourite corner of the settee. “There are certainly one or two
      indications upon the stick. It gives us the basis for several
      deductions.”

      “Has anything escaped me?” I asked with some self-importance. “I
      trust that there is nothing of consequence which I have
      overlooked?”

      “I am afraid, my dear Watson, that most of your conclusions were
      erroneous. When I said that you stimulated me I meant, to be
      frank, that in noting your fallacies I was occasionally guided
      towards the truth. Not that you are entirely wrong in this
      instance. The man is certainly a country practitioner. And he
      walks a good deal.”

      “Then I was right.”

      “To that extent.”

      “But that was all.”

      “No, no, my dear Watson, not all—by no means all. I would
      suggest, for example, that a presentation to a doctor is more
      likely to come from a hospital than from a hunt, and that when
      the initials ‘C.C.’ are placed before that hospital the words
      ‘Charing Cross’ very naturally suggest themselves.”

      “You may be right.”

      “The probability lies in that direction. And if we take this as a
      working hypothesis we have a fresh basis from which to start our
      construction of this unknown visitor.”

      “Well, then, supposing that ‘C.C.H.’ does stand for ‘Charing
      Cross Hospital,’ what further inferences may we draw?”

      “Do none suggest themselves? You know my methods. Apply them!”

      “I can only think of the obvious conclusion that the man has
      practised in town before going to the country.”

      “I think that we might venture a little farther than this. Look
      at it in this light. On what occasion would it be most probable
      that such a presentation would be made? When would his friends
      unite to give him a pledge of their good will? Obviously at the
      moment when Dr. Mortimer withdrew from the service of the
      hospital in order to start a practice for himself. We know there
      has been a presentation. We believe there has been a change from
      a town hospital to a country practice. Is it, then, stretching
      our inference too far to say that the presentation was on the
      occasion of the change?”

      “It certainly seems probable.”

      “Now, you will observe that he could not have been on the _staff_
      of the hospital, since only a man well-established in a London
      practice could hold such a position, and such a one would not
      drift into the country. What was he, then? If he was in the
      hospital and yet not on the staff he could only have been a
      house-surgeon or a house-physician—little more than a senior
      student. And he left five years ago—the date is on the stick. So
      your grave, middle-aged family practitioner vanishes into thin
      air, my dear Watson, and there emerges a young fellow under
      thirty, amiable, unambitious, absent-minded, and the possessor of
      a favourite dog, which I should describe roughly as being larger
      than a terrier and smaller than a mastiff.”

      I laughed incredulously as Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his
      settee and blew little wavering rings of smoke up to the ceiling.

      “As to the latter part, I have no means of checking you,” said I,
      “but at least it is not difficult to find out a few particulars
      about the man’s age and professional career.” From my small
      medical shelf I took down the Medical Directory and turned up the
      name. There were several Mortimers, but only one who could be our
      visitor. I read his record aloud.

        “Mortimer, James, M.R.C.S., 1882, Grimpen, Dartmoor, Devon.
        House-surgeon, from 1882 to 1884, at Charing Cross Hospital.
        Winner of the Jackson prize for Comparative Pathology, with
        essay entitled ‘Is Disease a Reversion?’  Corresponding member
        of the Swedish Pathological Society.  Author of ‘Some Freaks of
        Atavism’ (_Lancet_ 1882).  ‘Do We Progress?’ (_Journal of
        Psychology_, March, 1883). Medical Officer for the parishes of
        Grimpen, Thorsley, and High Barrow.”

      “No mention of that local hunt, Watson,” said Holmes with a
      mischievous smile, “but a country doctor, as you very astutely
      observed. I think that I am fairly justified in my inferences. As
      to the adjectives, I said, if I remember right, amiable,
      unambitious, and absent-minded. It is my experience that it is
      only an amiable man in this world who receives testimonials, only
      an unambitious one who abandons a London career for the country,
      and only an absent-minded one who leaves his stick and not his
      visiting-card after waiting an hour in your room.”

      “And the dog?”

      “Has been in the habit of carrying this stick behind his master.
      Being a heavy stick the dog has held it tightly by the middle,
      and the marks of his teeth are very plainly visible. The dog’s
      jaw, as shown in the space between these marks, is too broad in
      my opinion for a terrier and not broad enough for a mastiff. It
      may have been—yes, by Jove, it _is_ a curly-haired spaniel.”

      He had risen and paced the room as he spoke. Now he halted in the
      recess of the window. There was such a ring of conviction in his
      voice that I glanced up in surprise.

      “My dear fellow, how can you possibly be so sure of that?”

      “For the very simple reason that I see the dog himself on our
      very door-step, and there is the ring of its owner. Don’t move, I
      beg you, Watson. He is a professional brother of yours, and your
      presence may be of assistance to me. Now is the dramatic moment
      of fate, Watson, when you hear a step upon the stair which is
      walking into your life, and you know not whether for good or ill.
      What does Dr. James Mortimer, the man of science, ask of Sherlock
      Holmes, the specialist in crime? Come in!”

      The appearance of our visitor was a surprise to me, since I had
      expected a typical country practitioner. He was a very tall, thin
      man, with a long nose like a beak, which jutted out between two
      keen, grey eyes, set closely together and sparkling brightly from
      behind a pair of gold-rimmed glasses. He was clad in a
      professional but rather slovenly fashion, for his frock-coat was
      dingy and his trousers frayed. Though young, his long back was
      already bowed, and he walked with a forward thrust of his head
      and a general air of peering benevolence. As he entered his eyes
      fell upon the stick in Holmes’s hand, and he ran towards it with
      an exclamation of joy. “I am so very glad,” said he. “I was not
      sure whether I had left it here or in the Shipping Office. I
      would not lose that stick for the world.”

      “A presentation, I see,” said Holmes.

      “Yes, sir.”

      “From Charing Cross Hospital?”

      “From one or two friends there on the occasion of my marriage.”

      “Dear, dear, that’s bad!” said Holmes, shaking his head.

      Dr. Mortimer blinked through his glasses in mild astonishment.
      “Why was it bad?”

      “Only that you have disarranged our little deductions. Your
      marriage, you say?”

      “Yes, sir. I married, and so left the hospital, and with it all
      hopes of a consulting practice. It was necessary to make a home
      of my own.”

      “Come, come, we are not so far wrong, after all,” said Holmes.
      “And now, Dr. James Mortimer—”

      “Mister, sir, Mister—a humble M.R.C.S.”

      “And a man of precise mind, evidently.”

      “A dabbler in science, Mr. Holmes, a picker up of shells on the
      shores of the great unknown ocean. I presume that it is Mr.
      Sherlock Holmes whom I am addressing and not—”

      “No, this is my friend Dr. Watson.”

      “Glad to meet you, sir. I have heard your name mentioned in
      connection with that of your friend. You interest me very much,
      Mr. Holmes. I had hardly expected so dolichocephalic a skull or
      such well-marked supra-orbital development. Would you have any
      objection to my running my finger along your parietal fissure? A
      cast of your skull, sir, until the original is available, would
      be an ornament to any anthropological museum. It is not my
      intention to be fulsome, but I confess that I covet your skull.”

      Sherlock Holmes waved our strange visitor into a chair. “You are
      an enthusiast in your line of thought, I perceive, sir, as I am
      in mine,” said he. “I observe from your forefinger that you make
      your own cigarettes. Have no hesitation in lighting one.”

      The man drew out paper and tobacco and twirled the one up in the
      other with surprising dexterity. He had long, quivering fingers
      as agile and restless as the antennæ of an insect.

      Holmes was silent, but his little darting glances showed me the
      interest which he took in our curious companion. “I presume,
      sir,” said he at last, “that it was not merely for the purpose of
      examining my skull that you have done me the honour to call here
      last night and again today?”

      “No, sir, no; though I am happy to have had the opportunity of
      doing that as well. I came to you, Mr. Holmes, because I
      recognized that I am myself an unpractical man and because I am
      suddenly confronted with a most serious and extraordinary
      problem. Recognizing, as I do, that you are the second highest
      expert in Europe—”

      “Indeed, sir! May I inquire who has the honour to be the first?”
      asked Holmes with some asperity.

      “To the man of precisely scientific mind the work of Monsieur
      Bertillon must always appeal strongly.”

      “Then had you not better consult him?”

      “I said, sir, to the precisely scientific mind. But as a
      practical man of affairs it is acknowledged that you stand alone.
      I trust, sir, that I have not inadvertently—”

      “Just a little,” said Holmes. “I think, Dr. Mortimer, you would
      do wisely if without more ado you would kindly tell me plainly
      what the exact nature of the problem is in which you demand my
      assistance.”




Chapter 2.
The Curse of the Baskervilles


      “I have in my pocket a manuscript,” said Dr. James Mortimer.

      “I observed it as you entered the room,” said Holmes.

      “It is an old manuscript.”

      “Early eighteenth century, unless it is a forgery.”

      “How can you say that, sir?”

      “You have presented an inch or two of it to my examination all
      the time that you have been talking. It would be a poor expert
      who could not give the date of a document within a decade or so.
      You may possibly have read my little monograph upon the subject.
      I put that at 1730.”

      “The exact date is 1742.” Dr. Mortimer drew it from his
      breast-pocket. “This family paper was committed to my care by Sir
      Charles Baskerville, whose sudden and tragic death some three
      months ago created so much excitement in Devonshire. I may say
      that I was his personal friend as well as his medical attendant.
      He was a strong-minded man, sir, shrewd, practical, and as
      unimaginative as I am myself. Yet he took this document very
      seriously, and his mind was prepared for just such an end as did
      eventually overtake him.”

      Holmes stretched out his hand for the manuscript and flattened it
      upon his knee. “You will observe, Watson, the alternative use of
      the long _s_ and the short. It is one of several indications
      which enabled me to fix the date.”

      I looked over his shoulder at the yellow paper and the faded
      script. At the head was written: “Baskerville Hall,” and below in
      large, scrawling figures: “1742.”

      “It appears to be a statement of some sort.”

      “Yes, it is a statement of a certain legend which runs in the
      Baskerville family.”

      “But I understand that it is something more modern and practical
      upon which you wish to consult me?”

      “Most modern. A most practical, pressing matter, which must be
      decided within twenty-four hours. But the manuscript is short and
      is intimately connected with the affair. With your permission I
      will read it to you.”

      Holmes leaned back in his chair, placed his finger-tips together,
      and closed his eyes, with an air of resignation. Dr. Mortimer
      turned the manuscript to the light and read in a high, cracking
      voice the following curious, old-world narrative:

        “Of the origin of the Hound of the Baskervilles there have been
        many statements, yet as I come in a direct line from Hugo
        Baskerville, and as I had the story from my father, who also
        had it from his, I have set it down with all belief that it
        occurred even as is here set forth. And I would have you
        believe, my sons, that the same Justice which punishes sin may
        also most graciously forgive it, and that no ban is so heavy
        but that by prayer and repentance it may be removed.  Learn
        then from this story not to fear the fruits of the past, but
        rather to be circumspect in the future, that those foul
        passions whereby our family has suffered so grievously may not
        again be loosed to our undoing.

            “Know then that in the time of the Great Rebellion (the
            history of which by the learned Lord Clarendon I most
            earnestly commend to your attention) this Manor of
            Baskerville was held by Hugo of that name, nor can it be
            gainsaid that he was a most wild, profane, and godless man.
             This, in truth, his neighbours might have pardoned, seeing
            that saints have never flourished in those parts, but there
            was in him a certain wanton and cruel humour which made his
            name a by-word through the West.  It chanced that this Hugo
            came to love (if, indeed, so dark a passion may be known
            under so bright a name) the daughter of a yeoman who held
            lands near the Baskerville estate. But the young maiden,
            being discreet and of good repute, would ever avoid him,
            for she feared his evil name.  So it came to pass that one
            Michaelmas this Hugo, with five or six of his idle and
            wicked companions, stole down upon the farm and carried off
            the maiden, her father and brothers being from home, as he
            well knew.  When they had brought her to the Hall the
            maiden was placed in an upper chamber, while Hugo and his
            friends sat down to a long carouse, as was their nightly
            custom.  Now, the poor lass upstairs was like to have her
            wits turned at the singing and shouting and terrible oaths
            which came up to her from below, for they say that the
            words used by Hugo Baskerville, when he was in wine, were
            such as might blast the man who said them.  At last in the
            stress of her fear she did that which might have daunted
            the bravest or most active man, for by the aid of the
            growth of ivy which covered (and still covers) the south
            wall she came down from under the eaves, and so homeward
            across the moor, there being three leagues betwixt the Hall
            and her father’s farm.

            “It chanced that some little time later Hugo left his
            guests to carry food and drink—with other worse things,
            perchance—to his captive, and so found the cage empty and
            the bird escaped.  Then, as it would seem, he became as one
            that hath a devil, for, rushing down the stairs into the
            dining-hall, he sprang upon the great table, flagons and
            trenchers flying before him, and he cried aloud before all
            the company that he would that very night render his body
            and soul to the Powers of Evil if he might but overtake the
            wench.  And while the revellers stood aghast at the fury of
            the man, one more wicked or, it may be, more drunken than
            the rest, cried out that they should put the hounds upon
            her.  Whereat Hugo ran from the house, crying to his grooms
            that they should saddle his mare and unkennel the pack, and
            giving the hounds a kerchief of the maid’s, he swung them
            to the line, and so off full cry in the moonlight over the
            moor.

            “Now, for some space the revellers stood agape, unable to
            understand all that had been done in such haste.  But anon
            their bemused wits awoke to the nature of the deed which
            was like to be done upon the moorlands.  Everything was now
            in an uproar, some calling for their pistols, some for
            their horses, and some for another flask of wine.  But at
            length some sense came back to their crazed minds, and the
            whole of them, thirteen in number, took horse and started
            in pursuit.  The moon shone clear above them, and they rode
            swiftly abreast, taking that course which the maid must
            needs have taken if she were to reach her own home.

            “They had gone a mile or two when they passed one of the
            night shepherds upon the moorlands, and they cried to him
            to know if he had seen the hunt.  And the man, as the story
            goes, was so crazed with fear that he could scarce speak,
            but at last he said that he had indeed seen the unhappy
            maiden, with the hounds upon her track.  ‘But I have seen
            more than that,’ said he, ‘for Hugo Baskerville passed me
            upon his black mare, and there ran mute behind him such a
            hound of hell as God forbid should ever be at my heels.’ 
            So the drunken squires cursed the shepherd and rode onward.
             But soon their skins turned cold, for there came a
            galloping across the moor, and the black mare, dabbled with
            white froth, went past with trailing bridle and empty
            saddle.  Then the revellers rode close together, for a
            great fear was on them, but they still followed over the
            moor, though each, had he been alone, would have been right
            glad to have turned his horse’s head.  Riding slowly in
            this fashion they came at last upon the hounds.  These,
            though known for their valour and their breed, were
            whimpering in a cluster at the head of a deep dip or goyal,
            as we call it, upon the moor, some slinking away and some,
            with starting hackles and staring eyes, gazing down the
            narrow valley before them.

            “The company had come to a halt, more sober men, as you may
            guess, than when they started.  The most of them would by
            no means advance, but three of them, the boldest, or it may
            be the most drunken, rode forward down the goyal. Now, it
            opened into a broad space in which stood two of those great
            stones, still to be seen there, which were set by certain
            forgotten peoples in the days of old. The moon was shining
            bright upon the clearing, and there in the centre lay the
            unhappy maid where she had fallen, dead of fear and of
            fatigue.  But it was not the sight of her body, nor yet was
            it that of the body of Hugo Baskerville lying near her,
            which raised the hair upon the heads of these three
            dare-devil roysterers, but it was that, standing over Hugo,
            and plucking at his throat, there stood a foul thing, a
            great, black beast, shaped like a hound, yet larger than
            any hound that ever mortal eye has rested upon.  And even
            as they looked the thing tore the throat out of Hugo
            Baskerville, on which, as it turned its blazing eyes and
            dripping jaws upon them, the three shrieked with fear and
            rode for dear life, still screaming, across the moor.  One,
            it is said, died that very night of what he had seen, and
            the other twain were but broken men for the rest of their
            days.

            “Such is the tale, my sons, of the coming of the hound
            which is said to have plagued the family so sorely ever
            since.  If I have set it down it is because that which is
            clearly known hath less terror than that which is but
            hinted at and guessed.  Nor can it be denied that many of
            the family have been unhappy in their deaths, which have
            been sudden, bloody, and mysterious.  Yet may we shelter
            ourselves in the infinite goodness of Providence, which
            would not forever punish the innocent beyond that third or
            fourth generation which is threatened in Holy Writ.  To
            that Providence, my sons, I hereby commend you, and I
            counsel you by way of caution to forbear from crossing the
            moor in those dark hours when the powers of evil are
            exalted.

            “[This from Hugo Baskerville to his sons Rodger and John,
            with instructions that they say nothing thereof to their
            sister Elizabeth.]”

      When Dr. Mortimer had finished reading this singular narrative he
      pushed his spectacles up on his forehead and stared across at Mr.
      Sherlock Holmes. The latter yawned and tossed the end of his
      cigarette into the fire.

      “Well?” said he.

      “Do you not find it interesting?”

      “To a collector of fairy tales.”

      Dr. Mortimer drew a folded newspaper out of his pocket.

      “Now, Mr. Holmes, we will give you something a little more
      recent. This is the _Devon County Chronicle_ of May 14th of this
      year. It is a short account of the facts elicited at the death of
      Sir Charles Baskerville which occurred a few days before that
      date.”

      My friend leaned a little forward and his expression became
      intent. Our visitor readjusted his glasses and began:

        “The recent sudden death of Sir Charles Baskerville, whose name
        has been mentioned as the probable Liberal candidate for
        Mid-Devon at the next election, has cast a gloom over the
        county.  Though Sir Charles had resided at Baskerville Hall for
        a comparatively short period his amiability of character and
        extreme generosity had won the affection and respect of all who
        had been brought into contact with him.  In these days of
        _nouveaux riches_ it is refreshing to find a case where the
        scion of an old county family which has fallen upon evil days
        is able to make his own fortune and to bring it back with him
        to restore the fallen grandeur of his line.  Sir Charles, as is
        well known, made large sums of money in South African
        speculation. More wise than those who go on until the wheel
        turns against them, he realised his gains and returned to
        England with them.  It is only two years since he took up his
        residence at Baskerville Hall, and it is common talk how large
        were those schemes of reconstruction and improvement which have
        been interrupted by his death.  Being himself childless, it was
        his openly expressed desire that the whole countryside should,
        within his own lifetime, profit by his good fortune, and many
        will have personal reasons for bewailing his untimely end.  His
        generous donations to local and county charities have been
        frequently chronicled in these columns.

            “The circumstances connected with the death of Sir Charles
            cannot be said to have been entirely cleared up by the
            inquest, but at least enough has been done to dispose of
            those rumours to which local superstition has given rise.
            There is no reason whatever to suspect foul play, or to
            imagine that death could be from any but natural causes.
            Sir Charles was a widower, and a man who may be said to
            have been in some ways of an eccentric habit of mind. In
            spite of his considerable wealth he was simple in his
            personal tastes, and his indoor servants at Baskerville
            Hall consisted of a married couple named Barrymore, the
            husband acting as butler and the wife as housekeeper. Their
            evidence, corroborated by that of several friends, tends to
            show that Sir Charles’s health has for some time been
            impaired, and points especially to some affection of the
            heart, manifesting itself in changes of colour,
            breathlessness, and acute attacks of nervous depression.
            Dr. James Mortimer, the friend and medical attendant of the
            deceased, has given evidence to the same effect.

            “The facts of the case are simple.  Sir Charles Baskerville
            was in the habit every night before going to bed of walking
            down the famous yew alley of Baskerville Hall.  The
            evidence of the Barrymores shows that this had been his
            custom. On the fourth of May Sir Charles had declared his
            intention of starting next day for London, and had ordered
            Barrymore to prepare his luggage.  That night he went out
            as usual for his nocturnal walk, in the course of which he
            was in the habit of smoking a cigar.  He never returned. 
            At twelve o’clock Barrymore, finding the hall door still
            open, became alarmed, and, lighting a lantern, went in
            search of his master.  The day had been wet, and Sir
            Charles’s footmarks were easily traced down the alley. 
            Halfway down this walk there is a gate which leads out on
            to the moor. There were indications that Sir Charles had
            stood for some little time here.  He then proceeded down
            the alley, and it was at the far end of it that his body
            was discovered. One fact which has not been explained is
            the statement of Barrymore that his master’s footprints
            altered their character from the time that he passed the
            moor-gate, and that he appeared from thence onward to have
            been walking upon his toes.  One Murphy, a gipsy
            horse-dealer, was on the moor at no great distance at the
            time, but he appears by his own confession to have been the
            worse for drink. He declares that he heard cries but is
            unable to state from what direction they came.  No signs of
            violence were to be discovered upon Sir Charles’s person,
            and though the doctor’s evidence pointed to an almost
            incredible facial distortion—so great that Dr. Mortimer
            refused at first to believe that it was indeed his friend
            and patient who lay before him—it was explained that that
            is a symptom which is not unusual in cases of dyspnœa and
            death from cardiac exhaustion.  This explanation was borne
            out by the post-mortem examination, which showed
            long-standing organic disease, and the coroner’s jury
            returned a verdict in accordance with the medical evidence.
             It is well that this is so, for it is obviously of the
            utmost importance that Sir Charles’s heir should settle at
            the Hall and continue the good work which has been so sadly
            interrupted.  Had the prosaic finding of the coroner not
            finally put an end to the romantic stories which have been
            whispered in connection with the affair, it might have been
            difficult to find a tenant for Baskerville Hall.  It is
            understood that the next of kin is Mr. Henry Baskerville,
            if he be still alive, the son of Sir Charles Baskerville’s
            younger brother.  The young man when last heard of was in
            America, and inquiries are being instituted with a view to
            informing him of his good fortune.”

      Dr. Mortimer refolded his paper and replaced it in his pocket.
      “Those are the public facts, Mr. Holmes, in connection with the
      death of Sir Charles Baskerville.”

      “I must thank you,” said Sherlock Holmes, “for calling my
      attention to a case which certainly presents some features of
      interest. I had observed some newspaper comment at the time, but
      I was exceedingly preoccupied by that little affair of the
      Vatican cameos, and in my anxiety to oblige the Pope I lost touch
      with several interesting English cases. This article, you say,
      contains all the public facts?”

      “It does.”

      “Then let me have the private ones.” He leaned back, put his
      finger-tips together, and assumed his most impassive and judicial
      expression.

      “In doing so,” said Dr. Mortimer, who had begun to show signs of
      some strong emotion, “I am telling that which I have not confided
      to anyone. My motive for withholding it from the coroner’s
      inquiry is that a man of science shrinks from placing himself in
      the public position of seeming to indorse a popular superstition.
      I had the further motive that Baskerville Hall, as the paper
      says, would certainly remain untenanted if anything were done to
      increase its already rather grim reputation. For both these
      reasons I thought that I was justified in telling rather less
      than I knew, since no practical good could result from it, but
      with you there is no reason why I should not be perfectly frank.

      “The moor is very sparsely inhabited, and those who live near
      each other are thrown very much together. For this reason I saw a
      good deal of Sir Charles Baskerville. With the exception of Mr.
      Frankland, of Lafter Hall, and Mr. Stapleton, the naturalist,
      there are no other men of education within many miles. Sir
      Charles was a retiring man, but the chance of his illness brought
      us together, and a community of interests in science kept us so.
      He had brought back much scientific information from South
      Africa, and many a charming evening we have spent together
      discussing the comparative anatomy of the Bushman and the
      Hottentot.

      “Within the last few months it became increasingly plain to me
      that Sir Charles’s nervous system was strained to the breaking
      point. He had taken this legend which I have read you exceedingly
      to heart—so much so that, although he would walk in his own
      grounds, nothing would induce him to go out upon the moor at
      night. Incredible as it may appear to you, Mr. Holmes, he was
      honestly convinced that a dreadful fate overhung his family, and
      certainly the records which he was able to give of his ancestors
      were not encouraging. The idea of some ghastly presence
      constantly haunted him, and on more than one occasion he has
      asked me whether I had on my medical journeys at night ever seen
      any strange creature or heard the baying of a hound. The latter
      question he put to me several times, and always with a voice
      which vibrated with excitement.

      “I can well remember driving up to his house in the evening some
      three weeks before the fatal event. He chanced to be at his hall
      door. I had descended from my gig and was standing in front of
      him, when I saw his eyes fix themselves over my shoulder and
      stare past me with an expression of the most dreadful horror. I
      whisked round and had just time to catch a glimpse of something
      which I took to be a large black calf passing at the head of the
      drive. So excited and alarmed was he that I was compelled to go
      down to the spot where the animal had been and look around for
      it. It was gone, however, and the incident appeared to make the
      worst impression upon his mind. I stayed with him all the
      evening, and it was on that occasion, to explain the emotion
      which he had shown, that he confided to my keeping that narrative
      which I read to you when first I came. I mention this small
      episode because it assumes some importance in view of the tragedy
      which followed, but I was convinced at the time that the matter
      was entirely trivial and that his excitement had no
      justification.

      “It was at my advice that Sir Charles was about to go to London.
      His heart was, I knew, affected, and the constant anxiety in
      which he lived, however chimerical the cause of it might be, was
      evidently having a serious effect upon his health. I thought that
      a few months among the distractions of town would send him back a
      new man. Mr. Stapleton, a mutual friend who was much concerned at
      his state of health, was of the same opinion. At the last instant
      came this terrible catastrophe.

      “On the night of Sir Charles’s death Barrymore the butler, who
      made the discovery, sent Perkins the groom on horseback to me,
      and as I was sitting up late I was able to reach Baskerville Hall
      within an hour of the event. I checked and corroborated all the
      facts which were mentioned at the inquest. I followed the
      footsteps down the yew alley, I saw the spot at the moor-gate
      where he seemed to have waited, I remarked the change in the
      shape of the prints after that point, I noted that there were no
      other footsteps save those of Barrymore on the soft gravel, and
      finally I carefully examined the body, which had not been touched
      until my arrival. Sir Charles lay on his face, his arms out, his
      fingers dug into the ground, and his features convulsed with some
      strong emotion to such an extent that I could hardly have sworn
      to his identity. There was certainly no physical injury of any
      kind. But one false statement was made by Barrymore at the
      inquest. He said that there were no traces upon the ground round
      the body. He did not observe any. But I did—some little distance
      off, but fresh and clear.”

      “Footprints?”

      “Footprints.”

      “A man’s or a woman’s?”

      Dr. Mortimer looked strangely at us for an instant, and his voice
      sank almost to a whisper as he answered.

      “Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic hound!”




Chapter 3.
The Problem


      I confess at these words a shudder passed through me. There was a
      thrill in the doctor’s voice which showed that he was himself
      deeply moved by that which he told us. Holmes leaned forward in
      his excitement and his eyes had the hard, dry glitter which shot
      from them when he was keenly interested.

      “You saw this?”

      “As clearly as I see you.”

      “And you said nothing?”

      “What was the use?”

      “How was it that no one else saw it?”

      “The marks were some twenty yards from the body and no one gave
      them a thought. I don’t suppose I should have done so had I not
      known this legend.”

      “There are many sheep-dogs on the moor?”

      “No doubt, but this was no sheep-dog.”

      “You say it was large?”

      “Enormous.”

      “But it had not approached the body?”

      “No.”

      “What sort of night was it?’

      “Damp and raw.”

      “But not actually raining?”

      “No.”

      “What is the alley like?”

      “There are two lines of old yew hedge, twelve feet high and
      impenetrable. The walk in the centre is about eight feet across.”

      “Is there anything between the hedges and the walk?”

      “Yes, there is a strip of grass about six feet broad on either
      side.”

      “I understand that the yew hedge is penetrated at one point by a
      gate?”

      “Yes, the wicket-gate which leads on to the moor.”

      “Is there any other opening?”

      “None.”

      “So that to reach the yew alley one either has to come down it
      from the house or else to enter it by the moor-gate?”

      “There is an exit through a summer-house at the far end.”

      “Had Sir Charles reached this?”

      “No; he lay about fifty yards from it.”

      “Now, tell me, Dr. Mortimer—and this is important—the marks which
      you saw were on the path and not on the grass?”

      “No marks could show on the grass.”

      “Were they on the same side of the path as the moor-gate?”

      “Yes; they were on the edge of the path on the same side as the
      moor-gate.”

      “You interest me exceedingly. Another point. Was the wicket-gate
      closed?”

      “Closed and padlocked.”

      “How high was it?”

      “About four feet high.”

      “Then anyone could have got over it?”

      “Yes.”

      “And what marks did you see by the wicket-gate?”

      “None in particular.”

      “Good heaven! Did no one examine?”

      “Yes, I examined, myself.”

      “And found nothing?”

      “It was all very confused. Sir Charles had evidently stood there
      for five or ten minutes.”

      “How do you know that?”

      “Because the ash had twice dropped from his cigar.”

      “Excellent! This is a colleague, Watson, after our own heart. But
      the marks?”

      “He had left his own marks all over that small patch of gravel. I
      could discern no others.”

      Sherlock Holmes struck his hand against his knee with an
      impatient gesture.

      “If I had only been there!” he cried. “It is evidently a case of
      extraordinary interest, and one which presented immense
      opportunities to the scientific expert. That gravel page upon
      which I might have read so much has been long ere this smudged by
      the rain and defaced by the clogs of curious peasants. Oh, Dr.
      Mortimer, Dr. Mortimer, to think that you should not have called
      me in! You have indeed much to answer for.”

      “I could not call you in, Mr. Holmes, without disclosing these
      facts to the world, and I have already given my reasons for not
      wishing to do so. Besides, besides—”

      “Why do you hesitate?”

      “There is a realm in which the most acute and most experienced of
      detectives is helpless.”

      “You mean that the thing is supernatural?”

      “I did not positively say so.”

      “No, but you evidently think it.”

      “Since the tragedy, Mr. Holmes, there have come to my ears
      several incidents which are hard to reconcile with the settled
      order of Nature.”

      “For example?”

      “I find that before the terrible event occurred several people
      had seen a creature upon the moor which corresponds with this
      Baskerville demon, and which could not possibly be any animal
      known to science. They all agreed that it was a huge creature,
      luminous, ghastly, and spectral. I have cross-examined these men,
      one of them a hard-headed countryman, one a farrier, and one a
      moorland farmer, who all tell the same story of this dreadful
      apparition, exactly corresponding to the hell-hound of the
      legend. I assure you that there is a reign of terror in the
      district, and that it is a hardy man who will cross the moor at
      night.”

      “And you, a trained man of science, believe it to be
      supernatural?”

      “I do not know what to believe.”

      Holmes shrugged his shoulders. “I have hitherto confined my
      investigations to this world,” said he. “In a modest way I have
      combated evil, but to take on the Father of Evil himself would,
      perhaps, be too ambitious a task. Yet you must admit that the
      footmark is material.”

      “The original hound was material enough to tug a man’s throat
      out, and yet he was diabolical as well.”

      “I see that you have quite gone over to the supernaturalists. But
      now, Dr. Mortimer, tell me this. If you hold these views, why
      have you come to consult me at all? You tell me in the same
      breath that it is useless to investigate Sir Charles’s death, and
      that you desire me to do it.”

      “I did not say that I desired you to do it.”

      “Then, how can I assist you?”

      “By advising me as to what I should do with Sir Henry
      Baskerville, who arrives at Waterloo Station”—Dr. Mortimer looked
      at his watch—“in exactly one hour and a quarter.”

      “He being the heir?”

      “Yes. On the death of Sir Charles we inquired for this young
      gentleman and found that he had been farming in Canada. From the
      accounts which have reached us he is an excellent fellow in every
      way. I speak now not as a medical man but as a trustee and
      executor of Sir Charles’s will.”

      “There is no other claimant, I presume?”

      “None. The only other kinsman whom we have been able to trace was
      Rodger Baskerville, the youngest of three brothers of whom poor
      Sir Charles was the elder. The second brother, who died young, is
      the father of this lad Henry. The third, Rodger, was the black
      sheep of the family. He came of the old masterful Baskerville
      strain and was the very image, they tell me, of the family
      picture of old Hugo. He made England too hot to hold him, fled to
      Central America, and died there in 1876 of yellow fever. Henry is
      the last of the Baskervilles. In one hour and five minutes I meet
      him at Waterloo Station. I have had a wire that he arrived at
      Southampton this morning. Now, Mr. Holmes, what would you advise
      me to do with him?”

      “Why should he not go to the home of his fathers?”

      “It seems natural, does it not? And yet, consider that every
      Baskerville who goes there meets with an evil fate. I feel sure
      that if Sir Charles could have spoken with me before his death he
      would have warned me against bringing this, the last of the old
      race, and the heir to great wealth, to that deadly place. And yet
      it cannot be denied that the prosperity of the whole poor, bleak
      countryside depends upon his presence. All the good work which
      has been done by Sir Charles will crash to the ground if there is
      no tenant of the Hall. I fear lest I should be swayed too much by
      my own obvious interest in the matter, and that is why I bring
      the case before you and ask for your advice.”

      Holmes considered for a little time.

      “Put into plain words, the matter is this,” said he. “In your
      opinion there is a diabolical agency which makes Dartmoor an
      unsafe abode for a Baskerville—that is your opinion?”

      “At least I might go the length of saying that there is some
      evidence that this may be so.”

      “Exactly. But surely, if your supernatural theory be correct, it
      could work the young man evil in London as easily as in
      Devonshire. A devil with merely local powers like a parish vestry
      would be too inconceivable a thing.”

      “You put the matter more flippantly, Mr. Holmes, than you would
      probably do if you were brought into personal contact with these
      things. Your advice, then, as I understand it, is that the young
      man will be as safe in Devonshire as in London. He comes in fifty
      minutes. What would you recommend?”

      “I recommend, sir, that you take a cab, call off your spaniel who
      is scratching at my front door, and proceed to Waterloo to meet
      Sir Henry Baskerville.”

      “And then?”

      “And then you will say nothing to him at all until I have made up
      my mind about the matter.”

      “How long will it take you to make up your mind?”

      “Twenty-four hours. At ten o’clock tomorrow, Dr. Mortimer, I will
      be much obliged to you if you will call upon me here, and it will
      be of help to me in my plans for the future if you will bring Sir
      Henry Baskerville with you.”

      “I will do so, Mr. Holmes.” He scribbled the appointment on his
      shirt-cuff and hurried off in his strange, peering, absent-minded
      fashion. Holmes stopped him at the head of the stair.

      “Only one more question, Dr. Mortimer. You say that before Sir
      Charles Baskerville’s death several people saw this apparition
      upon the moor?”

      “Three people did.”

      “Did any see it after?”

      “I have not heard of any.”

      “Thank you. Good-morning.”

      Holmes returned to his seat with that quiet look of inward
      satisfaction which meant that he had a congenial task before him.

      “Going out, Watson?”

      “Unless I can help you.”

      “No, my dear fellow, it is at the hour of action that I turn to
      you for aid. But this is splendid, really unique from some points
      of view. When you pass Bradley’s, would you ask him to send up a
      pound of the strongest shag tobacco? Thank you. It would be as
      well if you could make it convenient not to return before
      evening. Then I should be very glad to compare impressions as to
      this most interesting problem which has been submitted to us this
      morning.”

      I knew that seclusion and solitude were very necessary for my
      friend in those hours of intense mental concentration during
      which he weighed every particle of evidence, constructed
      alternative theories, balanced one against the other, and made up
      his mind as to which points were essential and which immaterial.
      I therefore spent the day at my club and did not return to Baker
      Street until evening. It was nearly nine o’clock when I found
      myself in the sitting-room once more.

      My first impression as I opened the door was that a fire had
      broken out, for the room was so filled with smoke that the light
      of the lamp upon the table was blurred by it. As I entered,
      however, my fears were set at rest, for it was the acrid fumes of
      strong coarse tobacco which took me by the throat and set me
      coughing. Through the haze I had a vague vision of Holmes in his
      dressing-gown coiled up in an armchair with his black clay pipe
      between his lips. Several rolls of paper lay around him.

      “Caught cold, Watson?” said he.

      “No, it’s this poisonous atmosphere.”

      “I suppose it _is_ pretty thick, now that you mention it.”

      “Thick! It is intolerable.”

      “Open the window, then! You have been at your club all day, I
      perceive.”

      “My dear Holmes!”

      “Am I right?”

      “Certainly, but how?”

      He laughed at my bewildered expression. “There is a delightful
      freshness about you, Watson, which makes it a pleasure to
      exercise any small powers which I possess at your expense. A
      gentleman goes forth on a showery and miry day. He returns
      immaculate in the evening with the gloss still on his hat and his
      boots. He has been a fixture therefore all day. He is not a man
      with intimate friends. Where, then, could he have been? Is it not
      obvious?”

      “Well, it is rather obvious.”

      “The world is full of obvious things which nobody by any chance
      ever observes. Where do you think that I have been?”

      “A fixture also.”

      “On the contrary, I have been to Devonshire.”

      “In spirit?”

      “Exactly. My body has remained in this armchair and has, I regret
      to observe, consumed in my absence two large pots of coffee and
      an incredible amount of tobacco. After you left I sent down to
      Stamford’s for the Ordnance map of this portion of the moor, and
      my spirit has hovered over it all day. I flatter myself that I
      could find my way about.”

      “A large-scale map, I presume?”

      “Very large.”

      He unrolled one section and held it over his knee. “Here you have
      the particular district which concerns us. That is Baskerville
      Hall in the middle.”

      “With a wood round it?”

      “Exactly. I fancy the yew alley, though not marked under that
      name, must stretch along this line, with the moor, as you
      perceive, upon the right of it. This small clump of buildings
      here is the hamlet of Grimpen, where our friend Dr. Mortimer has
      his headquarters. Within a radius of five miles there are, as you
      see, only a very few scattered dwellings. Here is Lafter Hall,
      which was mentioned in the narrative. There is a house indicated
      here which may be the residence of the naturalist—Stapleton, if I
      remember right, was his name. Here are two moorland farmhouses,
      High Tor and Foulmire. Then fourteen miles away the great convict
      prison of Princetown. Between and around these scattered points
      extends the desolate, lifeless moor. This, then, is the stage
      upon which tragedy has been played, and upon which we may help to
      play it again.”

      “It must be a wild place.”

      “Yes, the setting is a worthy one. If the devil did desire to
      have a hand in the affairs of men—”

      “Then you are yourself inclining to the supernatural
      explanation.”

      “The devil’s agents may be of flesh and blood, may they not?
      There are two questions waiting for us at the outset. The one is
      whether any crime has been committed at all; the second is, what
      is the crime and how was it committed? Of course, if Dr.
      Mortimer’s surmise should be correct, and we are dealing with
      forces outside the ordinary laws of Nature, there is an end of
      our investigation. But we are bound to exhaust all other
      hypotheses before falling back upon this one. I think we’ll shut
      that window again, if you don’t mind. It is a singular thing, but
      I find that a concentrated atmosphere helps a concentration of
      thought. I have not pushed it to the length of getting into a box
      to think, but that is the logical outcome of my convictions. Have
      you turned the case over in your mind?”

      “Yes, I have thought a good deal of it in the course of the day.”

      “What do you make of it?”

      “It is very bewildering.”

      “It has certainly a character of its own. There are points of
      distinction about it. That change in the footprints, for example.
      What do you make of that?”

      “Mortimer said that the man had walked on tiptoe down that
      portion of the alley.”

      “He only repeated what some fool had said at the inquest. Why
      should a man walk on tiptoe down the alley?”

      “What then?”

      “He was running, Watson—running desperately, running for his
      life, running until he burst his heart—and fell dead upon his
      face.”

      “Running from what?”

      “There lies our problem. There are indications that the man was
      crazed with fear before ever he began to run.”

      “How can you say that?”

      “I am presuming that the cause of his fears came to him across
      the moor. If that were so, and it seems most probable, only a man
      who had lost his wits would have run _from_ the house instead of
      towards it. If the gipsy’s evidence may be taken as true, he ran
      with cries for help in the direction where help was least likely
      to be. Then, again, whom was he waiting for that night, and why
      was he waiting for him in the yew alley rather than in his own
      house?”

      “You think that he was waiting for someone?”

      “The man was elderly and infirm. We can understand his taking an
      evening stroll, but the ground was damp and the night inclement.
      Is it natural that he should stand for five or ten minutes, as
      Dr. Mortimer, with more practical sense than I should have given
      him credit for, deduced from the cigar ash?”

      “But he went out every evening.”

      “I think it unlikely that he waited at the moor-gate every
      evening. On the contrary, the evidence is that he avoided the
      moor. That night he waited there. It was the night before he made
      his departure for London. The thing takes shape, Watson. It
      becomes coherent. Might I ask you to hand me my violin, and we
      will postpone all further thought upon this business until we
      have had the advantage of meeting Dr. Mortimer and Sir Henry
      Baskerville in the morning.”




Chapter 4.
Sir Henry Baskerville


      Our breakfast table was cleared early, and Holmes waited in his
      dressing-gown for the promised interview. Our clients were
      punctual to their appointment, for the clock had just struck ten
      when Dr. Mortimer was shown up, followed by the young baronet.
      The latter was a small, alert, dark-eyed man about thirty years
      of age, very sturdily built, with thick black eyebrows and a
      strong, pugnacious face. He wore a ruddy-tinted tweed suit and
      had the weather-beaten appearance of one who has spent most of
      his time in the open air, and yet there was something in his
      steady eye and the quiet assurance of his bearing which indicated
      the gentleman.

      “This is Sir Henry Baskerville,” said Dr. Mortimer.

      “Why, yes,” said he, “and the strange thing is, Mr. Sherlock
      Holmes, that if my friend here had not proposed coming round to
      you this morning I should have come on my own account. I
      understand that you think out little puzzles, and I’ve had one
      this morning which wants more thinking out than I am able to give
      it.”

      “Pray take a seat, Sir Henry. Do I understand you to say that you
      have yourself had some remarkable experience since you arrived in
      London?”

      “Nothing of much importance, Mr. Holmes. Only a joke, as like as
      not. It was this letter, if you can call it a letter, which
      reached me this morning.”

      He laid an envelope upon the table, and we all bent over it. It
      was of common quality, greyish in colour. The address, “Sir Henry
      Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel,” was printed in rough
      characters; the post-mark “Charing Cross,” and the date of
      posting the preceding evening.

      “Who knew that you were going to the Northumberland Hotel?” asked
      Holmes, glancing keenly across at our visitor.

      “No one could have known. We only decided after I met Dr.
      Mortimer.”

      “But Dr. Mortimer was no doubt already stopping there?”

      “No, I had been staying with a friend,” said the doctor.

      “There was no possible indication that we intended to go to this
      hotel.”

      “Hum! Someone seems to be very deeply interested in your
      movements.” Out of the envelope he took a half-sheet of foolscap
      paper folded into four. This he opened and spread flat upon the
      table. Across the middle of it a single sentence had been formed
      by the expedient of pasting printed words upon it. It ran:

        As you value your life or your reason keep away from the moor.

      The word “moor” only was printed in ink.

      “Now,” said Sir Henry Baskerville, “perhaps you will tell me, Mr.
      Holmes, what in thunder is the meaning of that, and who it is
      that takes so much interest in my affairs?”

      “What do you make of it, Dr. Mortimer? You must allow that there
      is nothing supernatural about this, at any rate?”

      “No, sir, but it might very well come from someone who was
      convinced that the business is supernatural.”

      “What business?” asked Sir Henry sharply. “It seems to me that
      all you gentlemen know a great deal more than I do about my own
      affairs.”

      “You shall share our knowledge before you leave this room, Sir
      Henry. I promise you that,” said Sherlock Holmes. “We will
      confine ourselves for the present with your permission to this
      very interesting document, which must have been put together and
      posted yesterday evening. Have you yesterday’s _Times_, Watson?”

      “It is here in the corner.”

      “Might I trouble you for it—the inside page, please, with the
      leading articles?” He glanced swiftly over it, running his eyes
      up and down the columns. “Capital article this on free trade.
      Permit me to give you an extract from it.

     ‘You may be cajoled into imagining that your own special trade or
     your own industry will be encouraged by a protective tariff, but
     it stands to reason that such legislation must in the long run
     keep away wealth from the country, diminish the value of our
     imports, and lower the general conditions of life in this island.’

      “What do you think of that, Watson?” cried Holmes in high glee,
      rubbing his hands together with satisfaction. “Don’t you think
      that is an admirable sentiment?”

      Dr. Mortimer looked at Holmes with an air of professional
      interest, and Sir Henry Baskerville turned a pair of puzzled dark
      eyes upon me.

      “I don’t know much about the tariff and things of that kind,”
      said he, “but it seems to me we’ve got a bit off the trail so far
      as that note is concerned.”

      “On the contrary, I think we are particularly hot upon the trail,
      Sir Henry. Watson here knows more about my methods than you do,
      but I fear that even he has not quite grasped the significance of
      this sentence.”

      “No, I confess that I see no connection.”

      “And yet, my dear Watson, there is so very close a connection
      that the one is extracted out of the other. ‘You,’ ‘your,’
      ‘your,’ ‘life,’ ‘reason,’ ‘value,’ ‘keep away,’ ‘from the.’ Don’t
      you see now whence these words have been taken?”

      “By thunder, you’re right! Well, if that isn’t smart!” cried Sir
      Henry.

      “If any possible doubt remained it is settled by the fact that
      ‘keep away’ and ‘from the’ are cut out in one piece.”

      “Well, now—so it is!”

      “Really, Mr. Holmes, this exceeds anything which I could have
      imagined,” said Dr. Mortimer, gazing at my friend in amazement.
      “I could understand anyone saying that the words were from a
      newspaper; but that you should name which, and add that it came
      from the leading article, is really one of the most remarkable
      things which I have ever known. How did you do it?”

      “I presume, Doctor, that you could tell the skull of a negro from
      that of an Esquimau?”

      “Most certainly.”

      “But how?”

      “Because that is my special hobby. The differences are obvious.
      The supra-orbital crest, the facial angle, the maxillary curve,
      the—”

      “But this is my special hobby, and the differences are equally
      obvious. There is as much difference to my eyes between the
      leaded bourgeois type of a _Times_ article and the slovenly print
      of an evening half-penny paper as there could be between your
      negro and your Esquimau. The detection of types is one of the
      most elementary branches of knowledge to the special expert in
      crime, though I confess that once when I was very young I
      confused the _Leeds Mercury_ with the _Western Morning News_. But
      a _Times_ leader is entirely distinctive, and these words could
      have been taken from nothing else. As it was done yesterday the
      strong probability was that we should find the words in
      yesterday’s issue.”

      “So far as I can follow you, then, Mr. Holmes,” said Sir Henry
      Baskerville, “someone cut out this message with a scissors—”

      “Nail-scissors,” said Holmes. “You can see that it was a very
      short-bladed scissors, since the cutter had to take two snips
      over ‘keep away.’”

      “That is so. Someone, then, cut out the message with a pair of
      short-bladed scissors, pasted it with paste—”

      “Gum,” said Holmes.

      “With gum on to the paper. But I want to know why the word ‘moor’
      should have been written?”

      “Because he could not find it in print. The other words were all
      simple and might be found in any issue, but ‘moor’ would be less
      common.”

      “Why, of course, that would explain it. Have you read anything
      else in this message, Mr. Holmes?”

      “There are one or two indications, and yet the utmost pains have
      been taken to remove all clues. The address, you observe is
      printed in rough characters. But the _Times_ is a paper which is
      seldom found in any hands but those of the highly educated. We
      may take it, therefore, that the letter was composed by an
      educated man who wished to pose as an uneducated one, and his
      effort to conceal his own writing suggests that that writing
      might be known, or come to be known, by you. Again, you will
      observe that the words are not gummed on in an accurate line, but
      that some are much higher than others. ‘Life,’ for example is
      quite out of its proper place. That may point to carelessness or
      it may point to agitation and hurry upon the part of the cutter.
      On the whole I incline to the latter view, since the matter was
      evidently important, and it is unlikely that the composer of such
      a letter would be careless. If he were in a hurry it opens up the
      interesting question why he should be in a hurry, since any
      letter posted up to early morning would reach Sir Henry before he
      would leave his hotel. Did the composer fear an interruption—and
      from whom?”

      “We are coming now rather into the region of guesswork,” said Dr.
      Mortimer.

      “Say, rather, into the region where we balance probabilities and
      choose the most likely. It is the scientific use of the
      imagination, but we have always some material basis on which to
      start our speculation. Now, you would call it a guess, no doubt,
      but I am almost certain that this address has been written in a
      hotel.”

      “How in the world can you say that?”

      “If you examine it carefully you will see that both the pen and
      the ink have given the writer trouble. The pen has spluttered
      twice in a single word and has run dry three times in a short
      address, showing that there was very little ink in the bottle.
      Now, a private pen or ink-bottle is seldom allowed to be in such
      a state, and the combination of the two must be quite rare. But
      you know the hotel ink and the hotel pen, where it is rare to get
      anything else. Yes, I have very little hesitation in saying that
      could we examine the waste-paper baskets of the hotels around
      Charing Cross until we found the remains of the mutilated _Times_
      leader we could lay our hands straight upon the person who sent
      this singular message. Halloa! Halloa! What’s this?”

      He was carefully examining the foolscap, upon which the words
      were pasted, holding it only an inch or two from his eyes.

      “Well?”

      “Nothing,” said he, throwing it down. “It is a blank half-sheet
      of paper, without even a water-mark upon it. I think we have
      drawn as much as we can from this curious letter; and now, Sir
      Henry, has anything else of interest happened to you since you
      have been in London?”

      “Why, no, Mr. Holmes. I think not.”

      “You have not observed anyone follow or watch you?”

      “I seem to have walked right into the thick of a dime novel,”
      said our visitor. “Why in thunder should anyone follow or watch
      me?”

      “We are coming to that. You have nothing else to report to us
      before we go into this matter?”

      “Well, it depends upon what you think worth reporting.”

      “I think anything out of the ordinary routine of life well worth
      reporting.”

      Sir Henry smiled. “I don’t know much of British life yet, for I
      have spent nearly all my time in the States and in Canada. But I
      hope that to lose one of your boots is not part of the ordinary
      routine of life over here.”

      “You have lost one of your boots?”

      “My dear sir,” cried Dr. Mortimer, “it is only mislaid. You will
      find it when you return to the hotel. What is the use of
      troubling Mr. Holmes with trifles of this kind?”

      “Well, he asked me for anything outside the ordinary routine.”

      “Exactly,” said Holmes, “however foolish the incident may seem.
      You have lost one of your boots, you say?”

      “Well, mislaid it, anyhow. I put them both outside my door last
      night, and there was only one in the morning. I could get no
      sense out of the chap who cleans them. The worst of it is that I
      only bought the pair last night in the Strand, and I have never
      had them on.”

      “If you have never worn them, why did you put them out to be
      cleaned?”

      “They were tan boots and had never been varnished. That was why I
      put them out.”

      “Then I understand that on your arrival in London yesterday you
      went out at once and bought a pair of boots?”

      “I did a good deal of shopping. Dr. Mortimer here went round with
      me. You see, if I am to be squire down there I must dress the
      part, and it may be that I have got a little careless in my ways
      out West. Among other things I bought these brown boots—gave six
      dollars for them—and had one stolen before ever I had them on my
      feet.”

      “It seems a singularly useless thing to steal,” said Sherlock
      Holmes. “I confess that I share Dr. Mortimer’s belief that it
      will not be long before the missing boot is found.”

      “And, now, gentlemen,” said the baronet with decision, “it seems
      to me that I have spoken quite enough about the little that I
      know. It is time that you kept your promise and gave me a full
      account of what we are all driving at.”

      “Your request is a very reasonable one,” Holmes answered. “Dr.
      Mortimer, I think you could not do better than to tell your story
      as you told it to us.”

      Thus encouraged, our scientific friend drew his papers from his
      pocket and presented the whole case as he had done upon the
      morning before. Sir Henry Baskerville listened with the deepest
      attention and with an occasional exclamation of surprise.

      “Well, I seem to have come into an inheritance with a vengeance,”
      said he when the long narrative was finished. “Of course, I’ve
      heard of the hound ever since I was in the nursery. It’s the pet
      story of the family, though I never thought of taking it
      seriously before. But as to my uncle’s death—well, it all seems
      boiling up in my head, and I can’t get it clear yet. You don’t
      seem quite to have made up your mind whether it’s a case for a
      policeman or a clergyman.”

      “Precisely.”

      “And now there’s this affair of the letter to me at the hotel. I
      suppose that fits into its place.”

      “It seems to show that someone knows more than we do about what
      goes on upon the moor,” said Dr. Mortimer.

      “And also,” said Holmes, “that someone is not ill-disposed
      towards you, since they warn you of danger.”

      “Or it may be that they wish, for their own purposes, to scare me
      away.”

      “Well, of course, that is possible also. I am very much indebted
      to you, Dr. Mortimer, for introducing me to a problem which
      presents several interesting alternatives. But the practical
      point which we now have to decide, Sir Henry, is whether it is or
      is not advisable for you to go to Baskerville Hall.”

      “Why should I not go?”

      “There seems to be danger.”

      “Do you mean danger from this family fiend or do you mean danger
      from human beings?”

      “Well, that is what we have to find out.”

      “Whichever it is, my answer is fixed. There is no devil in hell,
      Mr. Holmes, and there is no man upon earth who can prevent me
      from going to the home of my own people, and you may take that to
      be my final answer.” His dark brows knitted and his face flushed
      to a dusky red as he spoke. It was evident that the fiery temper
      of the Baskervilles was not extinct in this their last
      representative. “Meanwhile,” said he, “I have hardly had time to
      think over all that you have told me. It’s a big thing for a man
      to have to understand and to decide at one sitting. I should like
      to have a quiet hour by myself to make up my mind. Now, look
      here, Mr. Holmes, it’s half-past eleven now and I am going back
      right away to my hotel. Suppose you and your friend, Dr. Watson,
      come round and lunch with us at two. I’ll be able to tell you
      more clearly then how this thing strikes me.”

      “Is that convenient to you, Watson?”

      “Perfectly.”

      “Then you may expect us. Shall I have a cab called?”

      “I’d prefer to walk, for this affair has flurried me rather.”

      “I’ll join you in a walk, with pleasure,” said his companion.

      “Then we meet again at two o’clock. Au revoir, and good-morning!”

      We heard the steps of our visitors descend the stair and the bang
      of the front door. In an instant Holmes had changed from the
      languid dreamer to the man of action.

      “Your hat and boots, Watson, quick! Not a moment to lose!” He
      rushed into his room in his dressing-gown and was back again in a
      few seconds in a frock-coat. We hurried together down the stairs
      and into the street. Dr. Mortimer and Baskerville were still
      visible about two hundred yards ahead of us in the direction of
      Oxford Street.

      “Shall I run on and stop them?”

      “Not for the world, my dear Watson. I am perfectly satisfied with
      your company if you will tolerate mine. Our friends are wise, for
      it is certainly a very fine morning for a walk.”

      He quickened his pace until we had decreased the distance which
      divided us by about half. Then, still keeping a hundred yards
      behind, we followed into Oxford Street and so down Regent Street.
      Once our friends stopped and stared into a shop window, upon
      which Holmes did the same. An instant afterwards he gave a little
      cry of satisfaction, and, following the direction of his eager
      eyes, I saw that a hansom cab with a man inside which had halted
      on the other side of the street was now proceeding slowly onward
      again.

      “There’s our man, Watson! Come along! We’ll have a good look at
      him, if we can do no more.”

      At that instant I was aware of a bushy black beard and a pair of
      piercing eyes turned upon us through the side window of the cab.
      Instantly the trapdoor at the top flew up, something was screamed
      to the driver, and the cab flew madly off down Regent Street.
      Holmes looked eagerly round for another, but no empty one was in
      sight. Then he dashed in wild pursuit amid the stream of the
      traffic, but the start was too great, and already the cab was out
      of sight.

      “There now!” said Holmes bitterly as he emerged panting and white
      with vexation from the tide of vehicles. “Was ever such bad luck
      and such bad management, too? Watson, Watson, if you are an
      honest man you will record this also and set it against my
      successes!”

      “Who was the man?”

      “I have not an idea.”

      “A spy?”

      “Well, it was evident from what we have heard that Baskerville
      has been very closely shadowed by someone since he has been in
      town. How else could it be known so quickly that it was the
      Northumberland Hotel which he had chosen? If they had followed
      him the first day I argued that they would follow him also the
      second. You may have observed that I twice strolled over to the
      window while Dr. Mortimer was reading his legend.”

      “Yes, I remember.”

      “I was looking out for loiterers in the street, but I saw none.
      We are dealing with a clever man, Watson. This matter cuts very
      deep, and though I have not finally made up my mind whether it is
      a benevolent or a malevolent agency which is in touch with us, I
      am conscious always of power and design. When our friends left I
      at once followed them in the hopes of marking down their
      invisible attendant. So wily was he that he had not trusted
      himself upon foot, but he had availed himself of a cab so that he
      could loiter behind or dash past them and so escape their notice.
      His method had the additional advantage that if they were to take
      a cab he was all ready to follow them. It has, however, one
      obvious disadvantage.”

      “It puts him in the power of the cabman.”

      “Exactly.”

      “What a pity we did not get the number!”

      “My dear Watson, clumsy as I have been, you surely do not
      seriously imagine that I neglected to get the number? No. 2704 is
      our man. But that is no use to us for the moment.”

      “I fail to see how you could have done more.”

      “On observing the cab I should have instantly turned and walked
      in the other direction. I should then at my leisure have hired a
      second cab and followed the first at a respectful distance, or,
      better still, have driven to the Northumberland Hotel and waited
      there. When our unknown had followed Baskerville home we should
      have had the opportunity of playing his own game upon himself and
      seeing where he made for. As it is, by an indiscreet eagerness,
      which was taken advantage of with extraordinary quickness and
      energy by our opponent, we have betrayed ourselves and lost our
      man.”

      We had been sauntering slowly down Regent Street during this
      conversation, and Dr. Mortimer, with his companion, had long
      vanished in front of us.

      “There is no object in our following them,” said Holmes. “The
      shadow has departed and will not return. We must see what further
      cards we have in our hands and play them with decision. Could you
      swear to that man’s face within the cab?”

      “I could swear only to the beard.”

      “And so could I—from which I gather that in all probability it
      was a false one. A clever man upon so delicate an errand has no
      use for a beard save to conceal his features. Come in here,
      Watson!”

      He turned into one of the district messenger offices, where he
      was warmly greeted by the manager.

      “Ah, Wilson, I see you have not forgotten the little case in
      which I had the good fortune to help you?”

      “No, sir, indeed I have not. You saved my good name, and perhaps
      my life.”

      “My dear fellow, you exaggerate. I have some recollection,
      Wilson, that you had among your boys a lad named Cartwright, who
      showed some ability during the investigation.”

      “Yes, sir, he is still with us.”

      “Could you ring him up?—thank you! And I should be glad to have
      change of this five-pound note.”

      A lad of fourteen, with a bright, keen face, had obeyed the
      summons of the manager. He stood now gazing with great reverence
      at the famous detective.

      “Let me have the Hotel Directory,” said Holmes. “Thank you! Now,
      Cartwright, there are the names of twenty-three hotels here, all
      in the immediate neighbourhood of Charing Cross. Do you see?”

      “Yes, sir.”

      “You will visit each of these in turn.”

      “Yes, sir.”

      “You will begin in each case by giving the outside porter one
      shilling. Here are twenty-three shillings.”

      “Yes, sir.”

      “You will tell him that you want to see the waste-paper of
      yesterday. You will say that an important telegram has miscarried
      and that you are looking for it. You understand?”

      “Yes, sir.”

      “But what you are really looking for is the centre page of the
      _Times_ with some holes cut in it with scissors. Here is a copy
      of the _Times_. It is this page. You could easily recognize it,
      could you not?”

      “Yes, sir.”

      “In each case the outside porter will send for the hall porter,
      to whom also you will give a shilling. Here are twenty-three
      shillings. You will then learn in possibly twenty cases out of
      the twenty-three that the waste of the day before has been burned
      or removed. In the three other cases you will be shown a heap of
      paper and you will look for this page of the _Times_ among it.
      The odds are enormously against your finding it. There are ten
      shillings over in case of emergencies. Let me have a report by
      wire at Baker Street before evening. And now, Watson, it only
      remains for us to find out by wire the identity of the cabman,
      No. 2704, and then we will drop into one of the Bond Street
      picture galleries and fill in the time until we are due at the
      hotel.”




Chapter 5.
Three Broken Threads


      Sherlock Holmes had, in a very remarkable degree, the power of
      detaching his mind at will. For two hours the strange business in
      which we had been involved appeared to be forgotten, and he was
      entirely absorbed in the pictures of the modern Belgian masters.
      He would talk of nothing but art, of which he had the crudest
      ideas, from our leaving the gallery until we found ourselves at
      the Northumberland Hotel.

      “Sir Henry Baskerville is upstairs expecting you,” said the
      clerk. “He asked me to show you up at once when you came.”

      “Have you any objection to my looking at your register?” said
      Holmes.

      “Not in the least.”

      The book showed that two names had been added after that of
      Baskerville. One was Theophilus Johnson and family, of Newcastle;
      the other Mrs. Oldmore and maid, of High Lodge, Alton.

      “Surely that must be the same Johnson whom I used to know,” said
      Holmes to the porter. “A lawyer, is he not, grey-headed, and
      walks with a limp?”

      “No, sir, this is Mr. Johnson, the coal-owner, a very active
      gentleman, not older than yourself.”

      “Surely you are mistaken about his trade?”

      “No, sir! he has used this hotel for many years, and he is very
      well known to us.”

      “Ah, that settles it. Mrs. Oldmore, too; I seem to remember the
      name. Excuse my curiosity, but often in calling upon one friend
      one finds another.”

      “She is an invalid lady, sir. Her husband was once mayor of
      Gloucester. She always comes to us when she is in town.”

      “Thank you; I am afraid I cannot claim her acquaintance. We have
      established a most important fact by these questions, Watson,” he
      continued in a low voice as we went upstairs together. “We know
      now that the people who are so interested in our friend have not
      settled down in his own hotel. That means that while they are, as
      we have seen, very anxious to watch him, they are equally anxious
      that he should not see them. Now, this is a most suggestive
      fact.”

      “What does it suggest?”

      “It suggests—halloa, my dear fellow, what on earth is the
      matter?”

      As we came round the top of the stairs we had run up against Sir
      Henry Baskerville himself. His face was flushed with anger, and
      he held an old and dusty boot in one of his hands. So furious was
      he that he was hardly articulate, and when he did speak it was in
      a much broader and more Western dialect than any which we had
      heard from him in the morning.

      “Seems to me they are playing me for a sucker in this hotel,” he
      cried. “They’ll find they’ve started in to monkey with the wrong
      man unless they are careful. By thunder, if that chap can’t find
      my missing boot there will be trouble. I can take a joke with the
      best, Mr. Holmes, but they’ve got a bit over the mark this time.”

      “Still looking for your boot?”

      “Yes, sir, and mean to find it.”

      “But, surely, you said that it was a new brown boot?”

      “So it was, sir. And now it’s an old black one.”

      “What! you don’t mean to say—?”

      “That’s just what I do mean to say. I only had three pairs in the
      world—the new brown, the old black, and the patent leathers,
      which I am wearing. Last night they took one of my brown ones,
      and today they have sneaked one of the black. Well, have you got
      it? Speak out, man, and don’t stand staring!”

      An agitated German waiter had appeared upon the scene.

      “No, sir; I have made inquiry all over the hotel, but I can hear
      no word of it.”

      “Well, either that boot comes back before sundown or I’ll see the
      manager and tell him that I go right straight out of this hotel.”

      “It shall be found, sir—I promise you that if you will have a
      little patience it will be found.”

      “Mind it is, for it’s the last thing of mine that I’ll lose in
      this den of thieves. Well, well, Mr. Holmes, you’ll excuse my
      troubling you about such a trifle—”

      “I think it’s well worth troubling about.”

      “Why, you look very serious over it.”

      “How do you explain it?”

      “I just don’t attempt to explain it. It seems the very maddest,
      queerest thing that ever happened to me.”

      “The queerest perhaps—” said Holmes thoughtfully.

      “What do you make of it yourself?”

      “Well, I don’t profess to understand it yet. This case of yours
      is very complex, Sir Henry. When taken in conjunction with your
      uncle’s death I am not sure that of all the five hundred cases of
      capital importance which I have handled there is one which cuts
      so deep. But we hold several threads in our hands, and the odds
      are that one or other of them guides us to the truth. We may
      waste time in following the wrong one, but sooner or later we
      must come upon the right.”

      We had a pleasant luncheon in which little was said of the
      business which had brought us together. It was in the private
      sitting-room to which we afterwards repaired that Holmes asked
      Baskerville what were his intentions.

      “To go to Baskerville Hall.”

      “And when?”

      “At the end of the week.”

      “On the whole,” said Holmes, “I think that your decision is a
      wise one. I have ample evidence that you are being dogged in
      London, and amid the millions of this great city it is difficult
      to discover who these people are or what their object can be. If
      their intentions are evil they might do you a mischief, and we
      should be powerless to prevent it. You did not know, Dr.
      Mortimer, that you were followed this morning from my house?”

      Dr. Mortimer started violently. “Followed! By whom?”

      “That, unfortunately, is what I cannot tell you. Have you among
      your neighbours or acquaintances on Dartmoor any man with a
      black, full beard?”

      “No—or, let me see—why, yes. Barrymore, Sir Charles’s butler, is
      a man with a full, black beard.”

      “Ha! Where is Barrymore?”

      “He is in charge of the Hall.”

      “We had best ascertain if he is really there, or if by any
      possibility he might be in London.”

      “How can you do that?”

      “Give me a telegraph form. ‘Is all ready for Sir Henry?’ That
      will do. Address to Mr. Barrymore, Baskerville Hall. What is the
      nearest telegraph-office? Grimpen. Very good, we will send a
      second wire to the postmaster, Grimpen: ‘Telegram to Mr.
      Barrymore to be delivered into his own hand. If absent, please
      return wire to Sir Henry Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel.’ That
      should let us know before evening whether Barrymore is at his
      post in Devonshire or not.”

      “That’s so,” said Baskerville. “By the way, Dr. Mortimer, who is
      this Barrymore, anyhow?”

      “He is the son of the old caretaker, who is dead. They have
      looked after the Hall for four generations now. So far as I know,
      he and his wife are as respectable a couple as any in the
      county.”

      “At the same time,” said Baskerville, “it’s clear enough that so
      long as there are none of the family at the Hall these people
      have a mighty fine home and nothing to do.”

      “That is true.”

      “Did Barrymore profit at all by Sir Charles’s will?” asked
      Holmes.

      “He and his wife had five hundred pounds each.”

      “Ha! Did they know that they would receive this?”

      “Yes; Sir Charles was very fond of talking about the provisions
      of his will.”

      “That is very interesting.”

      “I hope,” said Dr. Mortimer, “that you do not look with
      suspicious eyes upon everyone who received a legacy from Sir
      Charles, for I also had a thousand pounds left to me.”

      “Indeed! And anyone else?”

      “There were many insignificant sums to individuals, and a large
      number of public charities. The residue all went to Sir Henry.”

      “And how much was the residue?”

      “Seven hundred and forty thousand pounds.”

      Holmes raised his eyebrows in surprise. “I had no idea that so
      gigantic a sum was involved,” said he.

      “Sir Charles had the reputation of being rich, but we did not
      know how very rich he was until we came to examine his
      securities. The total value of the estate was close on to a
      million.”

      “Dear me! It is a stake for which a man might well play a
      desperate game. And one more question, Dr. Mortimer. Supposing
      that anything happened to our young friend here—you will forgive
      the unpleasant hypothesis!—who would inherit the estate?”

      “Since Rodger Baskerville, Sir Charles’s younger brother died
      unmarried, the estate would descend to the Desmonds, who are
      distant cousins. James Desmond is an elderly clergyman in
      Westmoreland.”

      “Thank you. These details are all of great interest. Have you met
      Mr. James Desmond?”

      “Yes; he once came down to visit Sir Charles. He is a man of
      venerable appearance and of saintly life. I remember that he
      refused to accept any settlement from Sir Charles, though he
      pressed it upon him.”

      “And this man of simple tastes would be the heir to Sir Charles’s
      thousands.”

      “He would be the heir to the estate because that is entailed. He
      would also be the heir to the money unless it were willed
      otherwise by the present owner, who can, of course, do what he
      likes with it.”

      “And have you made your will, Sir Henry?”

      “No, Mr. Holmes, I have not. I’ve had no time, for it was only
      yesterday that I learned how matters stood. But in any case I
      feel that the money should go with the title and estate. That was
      my poor uncle’s idea. How is the owner going to restore the
      glories of the Baskervilles if he has not money enough to keep up
      the property? House, land, and dollars must go together.”

      “Quite so. Well, Sir Henry, I am of one mind with you as to the
      advisability of your going down to Devonshire without delay.
      There is only one provision which I must make. You certainly must
      not go alone.”

      “Dr. Mortimer returns with me.”

      “But Dr. Mortimer has his practice to attend to, and his house is
      miles away from yours. With all the goodwill in the world he may
      be unable to help you. No, Sir Henry, you must take with you
      someone, a trusty man, who will be always by your side.”

      “Is it possible that you could come yourself, Mr. Holmes?”

      “If matters came to a crisis I should endeavour to be present in
      person; but you can understand that, with my extensive consulting
      practice and with the constant appeals which reach me from many
      quarters, it is impossible for me to be absent from London for an
      indefinite time. At the present instant one of the most revered
      names in England is being besmirched by a blackmailer, and only I
      can stop a disastrous scandal. You will see how impossible it is
      for me to go to Dartmoor.”

      “Whom would you recommend, then?”

      Holmes laid his hand upon my arm. “If my friend would undertake
      it there is no man who is better worth having at your side when
      you are in a tight place. No one can say so more confidently than
      I.”

      The proposition took me completely by surprise, but before I had
      time to answer, Baskerville seized me by the hand and wrung it
      heartily.

      “Well, now, that is real kind of you, Dr. Watson,” said he. “You
      see how it is with me, and you know just as much about the matter
      as I do. If you will come down to Baskerville Hall and see me
      through I’ll never forget it.”

      The promise of adventure had always a fascination for me, and I
      was complimented by the words of Holmes and by the eagerness with
      which the baronet hailed me as a companion.

      “I will come, with pleasure,” said I. “I do not know how I could
      employ my time better.”

      “And you will report very carefully to me,” said Holmes. “When a
      crisis comes, as it will do, I will direct how you shall act. I
      suppose that by Saturday all might be ready?”

      “Would that suit Dr. Watson?”

      “Perfectly.”

      “Then on Saturday, unless you hear to the contrary, we shall meet
      at the ten-thirty train from Paddington.”

      We had risen to depart when Baskerville gave a cry of triumph,
      and diving into one of the corners of the room he drew a brown
      boot from under a cabinet.

      “My missing boot!” he cried.

      “May all our difficulties vanish as easily!” said Sherlock
      Holmes.

      “But it is a very singular thing,” Dr. Mortimer remarked. “I
      searched this room carefully before lunch.”

      “And so did I,” said Baskerville. “Every inch of it.”

      “There was certainly no boot in it then.”

      “In that case the waiter must have placed it there while we were
      lunching.”

      ThherlockGerman was sent for but professed to know nothing of the
      matter, nor could any inquiry clear it uery in. Another item had been
      added to that constant and apparently purposeless series of small
      mysteries which had succeeded each ot“Evso rapidly. Setting
      aside the whole grim story of Sir Charles’s death, we had a line
      of ilar thxplicabledecidents all within the limits ontlywo days,
      which included the receipt of the printed letter, the
      black-bearded spy in the hansom, the loss of the new brown boot,
      the loss of the old black boot, and now the return of the new
      brown boot. Holmes sat in silence in the cab as we drove back to
      Baker Street, and I knew from his drawn brows and keen face that
      his mind, like my own, was b
      Holmes.y in endeavouring to frame some
      scheme into which all these strange and apparently disconnected
      episodes could be fitted. All afternoon and late into the evening
      he sat lost in tobacco and thought.

      Just before de griner two telegrams were handed in. The first r very s:

      Have just heard that Barrymore is at the Hall. BASKERVILLo te.

      The second:

      Visited twenty-three hotels as directed, but sorry to report
      unable to trace cut sheet o it is a_Times_. net.ARTWRIGHT.

      “There go two of my threads, Watson. There is nothing more
      stimulating than a case where everything goes against you. We
      must cast round for another scent.”

      “We have still the cabman who drove the spy.”

      “Exactly. I have wired to get his name and address from the
      Official Regisrown b. I should not be surprised if this were an
      answer to my question.”

      The ring at the bell proved to be something even more
      satisfactory than an answer, however, for the door opened and a
      rough-looking fellow entered who was evidently the man himself.

      “I got a message from the head ctory fice that a gent at this address
      had been inquiring for No. 2704,” said he. “I’ve driven my cab
      this seven years and never a word of complaint. I came here
      strdressght from the Yard to ask you to your face what you had
      against me.”

      “I have nothing in the world against you, my good man,” said
      Holmes. “On the contrary, I have half a sovereign for you if you
      will give me a clear answer to my questions.”

      “Well, I’ve had a good day and no mistake,” said the cabman with
      a grin. “What was it you wanted to ask, say an?”

      “First of all your name and address, in case I want ycablgain.”

      “John Clayton, 3askerville gurpey Street, the Borough. My cab is out of
      Shy Stley’s Yard, neacabiWaterloo

      “Jation.”

      Sherlock Holmes made aidentse of it.

      “Now,      willcleaton, tell me all about the fare who came and watched
      this house at tent whe’clock this morning and afterwards followed
      the two gentlemen down Regent Street.”

      The man looked surprised and a little had rmbarrassed. “Why, there’s
      no good my telling you things, for you seem to know as much as I
    yeado already,” said he. “The truth is that the gentleman told me
      that he was a detective and that I was to say nothing about him
      to anyone.”

      “My good fellow; this is a very serious business, and you may
      find yourself in a pretty bad position if you try to  our dde
      anything from me. You say that your fare told you that he was a
    yeadetectiired ?”

      “Yes, he did.”

      “When did he say this?”

      “When he left me.”

      “Did he say anything moedec?”

      “He mentioned his name.”

      Holmes cast a swift glance of triumph at me. “e to th, he mentioned
      his name, did he? That was imprudent. What was the name that he
      mentioned?”

      “His name,” said the cabman, “w

      “DMr. Sherlock Holmes.”

      Never have I seen my friend more completely taken aback than by
      the cabman’s reply. For an instant he sat in silent amazement.
an byThen he burst into a humphy laugh.

      “wn br touch, Watson—an undeniable tount am!” said he. “I feel a foil as
      quick and supple as my own. He got home upon me very prettily
      thanythiime. So his name w

      “DSherlock Holmes, was it?”

      “Yes, sir, that was the gentleman’s name.”

      “Excellent! Tell me where you picked him up and all that
      occurred.”

      “He hailed me at half-past nine in Trafam hegar Square. He said that
      he was a  this adective, and he offered me two gu seen as if I would do
      exactly what h”

      “Whented all day and asd spno queed me toucce. I waifficulglad
      enough to agree. First we drove down to the Northumberland Hotdeavo
      and waited there until two gentlemen came out and took a cab from
      the rank. We followed their cab until it pulled uice tsomewhere near
      here.”

      “This very door,” said Holmes.

      “Well, I couldn’t be sureck toat, but I dare say my fare knew
      all about it. We pulled uice thalfway down the street and waited an
      hour and a half. Then the two gentlemen passed us, walking, and
      we followed down Baker Street and alown bo—”

      “I know,” said Holmes.

      “Until we got three Anoqefore drters down Regent Street. Then my
      gentleman threw up the trap, and he cried that I should drive
      right away to Waterloo Station as hard as I could go. I whipped
      up the mare and we were there under the ten minutes. Then he paid
      up his two gu seen as, like a good one, and away he went into the
      station. Only just as he was ntil we ving he turn
      which iround and he said:
      ‘It might interest you to know that you have been drivinwn br Mr.
      Sherlock Holmes.’ That’s how I come to know the name.”

      “I see. And you saw ny doorore of him?”

      “Not after he went into the station.”

      “And how would you describe Mr. Sherlock Holmes?”

      The cabman scratched his head. “Well, heness,n’t altogether such
      an easy gentleman to describe.lar thx’d put him at forty years of age,
      and he was of a middle heigleft, two or three inches shor’vethan
      you, sir. He was dressed like a toff, and he had a black beard,
      cut sqefore dre at the end, and a pale face. I don’t know as I could
   our dday more than that.”

      “Colour of his eyes?”

      “No, I can’t say that.”

      “Nothing more that you cafterremembn.”?”

      “No, sir; nothing.”

      “Well, then, here is y head half-sovereiee. F. There’s another one
      waiting for you if you caing bobring any more information.
an byG aba-night!”

      “Good-night, sir, and thankown the st!”

      John Clayt from medeparted chuckling, and Holmes turned to me with a
      shrug of his shoulders and a r that he wasful smile.

      “Snap goes opruthird thread, and we end where we   mygan,” said he.
      “The  knewnning rascam he! He knew our number, knew that Sir Henry
      Baskerville had coucceulted me, spotted whthenI was in Regen” said BStreet,
      conjn tolured that I had got the number of the cab and would lay my
      hands on the driver, and so sent back this audacious message. Iale fell you, Watson,ou to ktime we have got a foeman who is worthy of
      our steel. I’ve been chey gomy
      giing boLondon. I can only wish you
      better luck in Dev

      Thhire. But Iaidm not eer Sty in my mind about it.”

      “About w a
  ?”

      “About sending you. It’s an ugly business, Watson, an ugly
      dangerous business, and the more I see of it the less I like it.
 tionedYes, my dear fellow, you may touuHolmes m, but I give yorom
y word that I
      shall be very glad to have you back safe and sound in Baker
      Street once more.”




Cha there 6..”

      “AndBaskerville Hall


      Sir Henry Baskerville rthuDr. Mortimer wIready upon the
      appointed day, and we started as arranged for Devonshire. Mr.
      Sherlock Holmes drove with me to the station anl, Iave me his last
      parting e grijunctions and advice.

      “I will no

      “DMias your mind by nd Hotggesting theories or suspici

      Th,
      Walad t” said he; “I wish you simplynly jreport facts in the
      fueady,t possible manner to me, and you can leav eas to do the
      theorizing.”

      “What sort of facts?” I asked.

      “Anything which may seem to have a?”

      “Hiaring however indirn tol upon
      the case, and especially the relations betweenown the stnwn br Baskerville
   rettind his neighbours or any fresh particulars concerning the death
      of Sir Charles. I have made some inquiries myself in the last few
      days, but the re wereultsgood o,

      Holmfquest, been negative. One thing only
      appears to be certain, and that is that Mr. James Desmon the Nowny mis
      the next heir, is an elderly gentleman of a very amiable
      disposition,nd wherthat this persecution dollow enot arise from him. I
      really think that we may eliminn a phe sureentirely from our
      cam heculations. There remain the people who will actually surround
      Sir Henry Baskervillookinupon the moor.”

      “Would it not be well i

      Thfirst place to get rid of this
      Barrymore coup drew?”

      “By no means. You could not make a greater mistake. If they  black 
      innocent it would be a cruack sinjuug e, and if they are guilty we
      should be giving up all chance of bringing it home to them. No,
      no, we will preserve them upon our list of s
      Holmes.pn tols. Then there
      is amatios nameat the Hall, if I remember right. There are two’vetoorland farmers. There is our friend Dr. Mortimer, whom I
      believe to be entirely honest, and there is his wife, of whom we
      know noer Sty. There isou to knaturalist, Stapleton, and there is
      his sister, who is said to bto do young lady of att whections. There
      is M neaFrankland, o it is aLafter Hall, who isbeen iso an unknown factor,
      and there are one or two othecabineighbours. em tse are the folk who
  ”

      “My gmust be your very special study.”

      “I will doeighbobest.”

      “You have arms,ish yuppose?”

      “Yes, I thought it as well to take them.”

      “Most certainly not bKeep your revolvecabineltoyou night and day, and
      neright.relax your p Allautioucce.”

      Our friends had already secured a first-class carriage and were
      waiting for us upon the platform.

      “No, we have no news of any kind,” said Dr. Mortimer in answer to
  ”

      “My gmy friend’s questions. “I cafterswear to one thing, and that is
      that we have not been shadow
      which iduring the last two days. We have
    ll prnever gone out without keeping a sharp 

      Ntch, and no one could
      ha
      cuescaped oucabino did he.”

      “You have always kept together, I presuan,?”

      “Except yesterda gotfternoon. I usually give up one day to pure
      amther itment where
   come to town, soish ypent it at the Museum of the
      Con witgf a sSurgeoucce.”

      “And I went to look at the folk in the pare cabman ” said Baskerville.

      “But we had no trouble of any kind.”

      “It was imprudent, all the ght awme,” s
      dayHolmes, sermanking his hy. F
      and looking very gre
      an. “I beg, Sir Henry, that you will not gostakbout alone. Some great mine of thefortune will be”

      “He mll you if you ore i. Did
      you get youpeciallt“Evbown the st!?”

      “No, sir, it is gone forever.”

      “Indeed. That is very interesting. Well, g aba-b, wal,” he addedy.”

      the train began to glide down the platform. “Beltoin mind, Sir
      Henry, one of the phrases in th

      “Uqueer old legend whicust haDr.
      Mortimer h

      “Dreel atay hes, and avoid the moor in those hours of
      darkness when the powers of evil are exalted.”r, whomI looked back at the platform when we had left it far behind and
      saw the tall, austere figure o it is aHolmes standing motionless and
      gazing after us.

      The jou There isy was a swifte to thleasant one, and I spent it in
      making the more intimatm stcquaintance of my two companions and in
      playing witust haDr. Mortimer’s splar thxel. In a very few hours the
      bre willearth had become ruddy, the brickl actchanged to grlar thxte,
      and redr sucwifficulgrazed in we let-hedgwhat hields where tll, ifush grass you
      and more lain fxton, aisfavegetation spoke of a richer, if a damper,
      climate. Young Baskerville stared eagerly out of the window and
  r, whomIried aloud with delight as he recognized the familiar features
      of tivingDevon sceis siy.

      “I’ve been over a gan,?pared e of the world since

      Holmleft it, Dr.
      Watson,” said he;  I
    but I have neveere areen a place to compare with
      it.”

      “I never saw a Devouccehire man who did not swear by, Dr.county,stud
      remarked.

      “Itn witgpends upon the b

      Td of meing boquite as much as on the
      county,” said Dr. Mortimer.  I
    A glance at our friend heave
    r genta
      had 
      the rve baed head of ty, I helt, which carries inside it the Cdeavotnchi
      enthusier Stme to thower of attachment. Poor Sir Charles’s head was
    yeaof a very rare type, half G misselic, half ase wvernian in ntered
      chau iferistnchis. But you weave
    very young when you last squai
      Baskerville Hall, were yof the oldnot?”

      “I was a b” he  in my twe es at the time of my faactly.’s death and had
      neveween the Hall, for he lived in a littlookincottage on the
     at sorupidCoast. Thence I went straight to a friend iing boAmerica. I
      tell you it is all as new to me as it is to Dr. Watson, and I’mstaks keen as possible il aee the moor.”

      “Are you? Then your wish is easily g Mortimetown Rfor there is your
      first sight of the moor,” said Dr. Mortimer, pointing out of the
      carriage window.l, wOver they myed awqefore dresing boLfields and the low currting f threeost a 
      there rose in the distance a grey,hould dlanchover theill, with a
      strange jagged summilonedim anno bvague in the distance, like some
  ” said Dr.ave been ds did h lands your ve in a dream. Baskerville s

      “Ufor a long tiuld g
      his eyes fixedafter it, and I read upon his uring ger face how much
      it meant to him, this first sight of that strange spot where the
      m littf, Dr.blood had held sway so long and left y in tir mark so
      deeery in. There he sat, with his tweed suit and his wn brmerican accent,
      in the coris si of a ps veraic railwclea-carriage, and yet as I looked
      at his dark ae. If xpressive fato me aI felt more than ever ho gentarue a
      descendant he was of as arlong lnew oo Thereg at mbloode the Nofiery, and
      masterful m after. There wIpridehich avalour, and strength in his
      thicd spbrows, his sensitive nostrils, and his large ermanzack seuilt.our
  
      on that forbidding moor a difficultessagdangeroe,
     quest should
      lie before us, this was at least a comrade for whom one migleft
      venture to take fferrms wk with thady oertainty that he would bravely
      share it.

      The trahat a gpulled up at a sice. wayside station and we all
      descen
      tha. Outside,?”

      “Hiyond the lowuit athusience, a to be sgonette with
      a pair of cobs was to be sio be e. Our coming was evidently a gron.

      event, for sttouu-d to kster and porters clustered round us to ca
      Holmes.p
      out  head l

      “But age. It was a sweetnce I mple country spot, but I was
    ll prsurprised to observe that by the gate there stood two sol agrerlyhat a gpnHolmes m,dark uniforms who le very sed upon their short rifles and
      glanced keenly at us asnd whicpassed.ltedcoace conman, a hard-facerom the Ytter lnarled littlhusiellow, ght awluted Sir Henry Baskerville, and in a
 freshw minutes we were flying swiftly down the broaduit ate road.
 tionedRWeling pasture lan been shcurved upward on eithewide o it is aus, and o  be
      gabled houses peeped out frs nameamid the tiend m green foliage, bows a
      behind the peaceful and sunul m countryside there rose ever, dark
      against the evening separy, the long, gloomy curve of the moor,
      broks
      thyrasjagged and sinister hi lets.

      Th”

      “Whegonettet he swung round into a side road, and we curvedythingward
      through deep l very ses worn by c      clries of wheels, high banks on
      either si
      add, heavy witust hadripping moss and fleshy hart’s-tong that he was
      ferucce. isenr

      “Myzing bracken and mottled bramblookingntil we med in thee. Yogleft
      of the sinking sad been.

      “Jill steadily rie fig,nd whicpassed over a
      narrow granite bridge and skirted a noisy stream whi and he ogushedd advwiftly down,
      and thaming and roaring aust as d the grey beft iters. Bthe moor
      road and stream wound up througd I valley dense with scabbt wheak
      and fir. At every turn Baskerville gave an exclamation of
      delight, looking eagerly about him and askiness,ncver, less
      questioucce. To his eyes all seemed beautirst wul, but to mto do tinge of
      melancholy lay upon the countrys you ha,of evbore so clearly the
      mark of the wanthat foear. Yellow leaves carpeted the lanes andnd he cluttered down upon ust’s-we passed. Tnow noattle of our wheels
      died awaue a we drove thrours anddeavofas yoo it is arottiness,nvegeta about—sad
      ge you?s, as it seemed to me, focabiNature after iralfwbefore thee
      waarriage of the returning heir ofrasBaskervilles.

      “Halloa!” cried Dr. Mortimer, canwhat is this?”

      A steeice tcurve of he had rm-clad landpon ou 

      “Anylying spee. F.f the moor,
      lay in front o it is aus. On the summit, hard and clear like an
      equestrian statue upon its pedese to thl was a mver, ed sol agrer, darksastern, efore drerifley busised ready over his forearm. He was
      watching the road along which we travay thatd.

      “What is thince moPerkiucce?” ask
      which iDr. Mortimer.

      Our driver half turned in hisloodeawn br B“There’s a convict es your ved
      froing the dPrincClawre tyir. He’s bion anout three days now, and the
      warders 

      Ntcnestvery road and ever Watson,tation, but they’ve had no
      sight of lack by

      Ha.ltedfarmers about here don’t like it, sir, and
      that’s a fact.”

      “Well, I understand that they geted suvr marunds if they can give
      information.”

      “Yes, sir, but the chancf a sfave nevepve bas head hbing mospoor thing
      compared to the chance of having your throat cut. You see, it
      isn’t like any ordinary convict. This is a man the greould st, he m
      at nothing.”

      “Who is he, then?”

      “It iifficulSrs anden, thherlockNottinwn br H had
 mt his d
      the lr.”

      I remembered the case well,  it is ausit was one inof evHolmes had
      taken an intereentioned on account opidCpeculiar ferithin ity of the
      crime and the wantoing bobrows aality which had marked to ksl the actions
      of thation. Osassin. The commows aation of his death sentence had been
      due to svery grdoubtortimer h to his compleand thereslar thxtyred th oot irithin ioe,
     was
     , Dr.conducwn br BOpruwream.onettefore drertopped a rise and in front o it is aus
      rose the huge eust as danse of the moor, mottledill dognarled and
      cralayiy cairns and tors. A othing old winuick wept down from it keenet us
      shivering. Somewhere there, on that desolaand thereplain, was lurking
      this eaiendisust haman, h as ding in a burrow like a wild?”

      “Hiaslonehis
      humph full of malignas evidy against the wholookinrace which had c
      fer
      him out. It needed but this to com” I te the grim suggestly
    ess
      of theess whrmaki  foite, the chilling wind, and the duponling sky.
 tionedEven Baskerville fell sy witnt and pulled his overcoat more closelystakround him.

      We had left the fertile country?”

      “Hihind and beneath us. We looked     infaown Bn it now, thngerolanting rays of a low sun tive yoing the
      stre

      “DSs to threads s eaiold anl, Ilowing on the red earpidnew
we fourned by the plough and the broad tangle of the woodlands. The
      road in front of uifficulgreould be ableaker and wilder over hly hoe russet and
    yeaolave nevesou, mpept dprinkled with giant boulders. Now and then timat
      passed a moorland cottage,ver, aled and roofed with stone, with no
      c

      Tper to bedec? its harsh outline. ncluuddenly we looked down into
   retti  knewplike deprertaint,rade tched with stbout weember aks and firs which
      had been twisted and bent by the fury of years oy the rtorm. r to thwo
      high, narrow towers rose over the t

      Ts. The drivery businted with
      his whip.

      “Baskerville Hall,” said he.

      Ias yomaster had riprud and was staring with flushed cheeks and
      shining eyes. A few minute foitater we had reached the lodge-gates,
      a and we wzf a sfave been dstny otracery in wrought iried t,ill doweather-bitten
      pillars on eit“Evsi
      add,  Watson, otchedill dolichens, and surmobout wed by
      the  said haair oerestinheads of the Baskervilles. The lodge was a rd that isn of
      black g Mortimeite and bar
      which iriway s n, 3rafters, but facing it was a new
      building, half c lookeducted, the first fabiur friSir Charles’s
      SoupidAfricaing bogendis.

      Through the garom Pway we passed into the avenue, where the whee
      had 
      were again hushed amid the leaves, and the old trt was its shoting and iy downbntenches in a  dabre tunnel over oStreeads. Baskerville shuddered
      as he looked up the long, dark drive to wwellthe house glimmered
      like a Holmes most at the farther end.

      “Was it h
      the l?” he asked i well ilalfwvoice.

      “No, n” he ashe yewk in tey is on the other s you ha.”

      The young heir glanced round with a gloomy face.

      “It’s no wonder my uncle  threwlt as intlyrouble were coming on him inskerville.uch a place as this,” said he. “It’s enough to scare any man.ive fa’ll have a row ofleft,eeriesrny olamps up here inside of six monte cons,
      and you e cabman n’t kad a bit again, with a thousand candle-identsewer Swan
   rettind two ofdisonr. Mortimer.ght here inot gont of the hall door.”

      The avenue opened into a broad expanse of turf, and the house lay
      bef“Evbuish yoI

      Thfading light I could see that the centre was a
      hea
      die  Watson, ock of buildd my from which a porch projected. The whole
      front was ded.ped in i
      die, with a patch clipped bare here and there
      wherto do wnce moP pon ou cout.  of arms broke through the dark vf oul.
      From this centstakrblock s vere the twrettyowers,before lcient,
      crelar thlto the ,e to thierced witust hamany l to dpholesy weor. Mortimer.ght and left of
      thblacu minutse hore more modern wing.

      “Wblack grlar thxte have al er hole. Yoght
      shone through hyes ay
      of Sllioned windowss afrom the high cing henonettes
      which rose from the srom Pep, h, “w-angled roof there scabinong a sard thl said hablack columing it sr, ande.

      “Wem hecome, Sir Henry! Welcome to Baskerville Hall been tw”

      A  it is gl man had stently ped from the shadow of the porch to had rm-en the
      door of the wagonlion.ltedfiath,rf a sa that the cman was silou
    etted for Dgainst the yellow light of the hall. She came out and helped the
      man to hand down our we esgs.

 two cYou don’t mt’s-wmo my riving straight home, Sir Henry?” said Dr.
      Mortimer.  I
    My wife is expecting me.”

      “Surely you wilrivintay and have some dinner?”

      “N of the
I must go. I shall p
      of tly find some work awaiting me. I
      would stay to show you over the he the g, but Barrymore w had
 be a
      bet’vegd that isde than I. ere goood-b, wal, rthunever herom the ht in the
ight or day to
      send forskerville.uif I can bees in aeon the be.”

      The wheels died away down tine irave nevewhile Sir Henry and I turnedt was do carpll, and the door clf ould heavily berkin us. It was and he ci thereapartment in which we foundh the dselves, large,boot,fspot  and
      head ady raftered with huge bir Henry alks o your tg up thblackened o      the r. In the
      great old-fashionwhat hireplato me abehind the high iried t dogs a
    ll prleed s-fire craceparled and sprispped. Sir Henry and I held out our hands
      to ilonefor we were numb the gaour long drive. Then we gaz
      which iroy, and
      us at the high, thin wnce moP of old stained g. The d, the oak
 tionedp very selling, the stagserestinheads, the coaas yoof arms upon the w in cass,
      all dim and eighbobbre in ans.ungtodued light of thady oent whelhe hanmery in.

      “It’s just as I imagineded me at” said Sir Henry.      aps it notrasvery
 up thbicturf a san old family home? To think that this should be the
      sapruthall inof evfor five hundred yearseighbopeople have lickenive fatark vikes mngeroo to my qn to think of it.”

      I saw his dard spface lit up with a b” he ish eto gehbefore lcspon the ms    firgazed for Dbout hiected ch, alight be

      “Uupon him where he stood, but long
      shadows trail
      which idown the walls and hung like a black ca

      “Expy above
      hiected Barrymore hnough toreturned from taking our luggags dieoof evbos morns.
      He stood alf-sront ofunknnand waith the subdued mannerlars o
      well-train agrereers ofant. He was a remaomewha at the ti-looking man, tall,
      hanoes omodge iand
    square black?”

      “Hiard and pale, distinguisheds. Weatures.

      “Would you w roade grineumb best.rved at once, sir?”

      “Isem hready?”

      “In a very few minutes, sir. es. Au will find ho Mortimettge,n your
      ros morns. My wife and I w had
 be

      “Welpf the
 , Sir Henry, we sttay with you
      until you have made your fresh arrangements, but you willoisyderstand that under the new conditions this house will require
      a considerable stafn B.”

      “What nasterfconditions?”

      “I o to be simve no t, sir, that Sir Charles led a very retired li threw, and
      we were africato looemembfter his wan it.. You would, ell, grul s, wish
      to have more company, and so you will need cervilles in your
      hother ithendis.”

      “Do you mean that your wife and you wish to lee
      an?”

      “Only when it iifficulquite convenient to you, ”

      The y”

      “But your family have been with us for several generations, have
      they not? I should be sorry to begin re itlife here by head hbeakingnt in
hen yould family connection.”l, wI seemeily hdiscerd awome siguilt.f had rmoythingwupon the bows aler’s w our dte
      face.

      “I feel t

      “It wll, Ia, sir, and so ore ie well il wife. But to tell the
      truth, sholeswe were both very mucd It carefched to Sir Charles, and
      his death ga
      cuu
      and hhbout hand made these surroy, andings very
 tionedpae griful tay hes.

      Holmfear that we shallast fe dongain be easy in our
      minds at Baskerville Hall.”

      “But what do you intend to ore i?”

      “I have no doubt, sir, that we shall succeed in eing boAlters ding
      ourselves in svery grbusiness say nir Charlesch
   generoa gry has givo asus
      the means to do so. he gad now, abi, perhaps I had   mys of
      bhow you to
    ll pryour ros morns.”

      A square balust whed as dian witry ran round tat cop of the old hall,stakpproached b
      cuedouble stair. From thi.”

      “AndBentraly busint two long
      corridorim sere
  ended the whole lengthing boLbuilding, from which
      all the bedrooms had rm-ened. My own was in the same wing as
      Baskerville’s and almoentioned next door to it. These rore sos appeared to
      be much m“Evbmodern than ts of the entral part of the he the g, ce ho
      bright paper airst wuus it?o two cYaiumlllow eday tosomething to remove theskerville.obrire impressionof evour arrival had left uponeighbomf a sanr, whomBut the dining-room which opened out of the hall was a place of
      shadow anl, Ilos morn. It was a loness,nch streaer witd I step to frphe firting
      the dais where the wholmily s

      “Ufrom theboot,wls, ortion reseoderd for
 but yoir dependen it.. At one enrom Pwinstrem hech
   gan witry overlooked it.ttle olack beams snd kt across leftvg warercos, with at he smltoy-llow lrkened
      cf ouling beyond them. Worlanrows of flaring tsily!crasj       realight it up,
      and thall, flour andisond sir, tlus.ty of aeet.lunch-o
      h banq that he wast, it might
      ha
      cusctory tened; but not the Hawhen twire. Bl there -clothed gentlemen sat t, and       the lhe yecay ancle ofe. Yoght throwing boby a shaded lamp, onech
   ve. Yoght was lucwith a ghushed and one’s spirit subheored. A dim lineltedficwer,ors,t and leg. Wvoor.ty of dthe far, from the o telizabethafterknight to the
es.’uown BfrasRegencan, a sre exed downafter us and daunted us bying and irskerville.ilent compa D. which cather, Ier Henryittle,good o,f

      “I goil aeaifficulglrom whichen the
 on
eent. Pwas over and we were able to retire into thef they droom w     infilliard-rs forea as I lmoke aifficulgigare the Nof.

      “My word, it isn’t a very ch

      We ful place,” said Sir Henry. ?”

      “Ye
      suppose one can to theredown to it, but It it wes, and t etedout of the knew icture
      Mopresent.

      Holmdon’t wonder that my unclookingoomewhalittle
an byjumpy if hee. Yoved als, and tlhird in sucd I house as    ro.
      Owonett, if
      it suits you, we will  but I giw muarly tonigleft, and perhaps things
      maas a beake a gore ch

      We ful in the morning.”

      I drew tectid

      “Not y curtains before I went       reabed and looked oe.
     from
 ndingy window. It opeeneroupon the grassyg. Sce which lay in front of
      the hall door. Beyon the Notwo copses of trt was its lacedaned anuick wung in aturnedising wind. A half moon broke throughver hiifts

      “Theracinge
      walulatisrom ounat they othing olde. Yoght I saould be abeingund the t

      Ts a broken y gomnge
      of rrom thes, and the l it is glle daysuoder of the melancholy moor. I
      closed the curtain,t it weling that my laient,mpression was in
      keeping with the rest.

      And yet it washolequite the last. I found myself weary and yet
      wakefulons. Tssing rch toehe was ly from side to sid compleeeking for the
      sleep which would not c not e.lf.a donway a chimd my clock strucnd, aut
      the quarters of the hoave hal, but otherwise a urs ote conl Watson,ilence lay
      upon the old he the g. And t
      shousuddenly, i

      Thvery dead of th said hanight, twellcame a l, Iau, and the l my earnce moclear, reso.

      “t, and
      unmistakable. It was the s

      “Wel of a womand to kslmain fffled, strangling
      ger Stp of on
      to i vorn build uncoisfavo letable sorrow. I sat up in
      bed and lilookinuned intennoo.ltednoise could nothe caave been f, he mway
      and was certainly in the he the g. For half an hour I waited with
    oken v that he wasnewe on the aid the lt, but twellcame no otherucklu as I lave the
      chiming clock and the rle toule of the i
      die on the wan, so was a d
.”

      “AndCtive a7.
The

      “Japletouilt.f askerville gur man, tit Horough.


      Then’esh beautying boLfollowin must gorning did something to e the
      sace
      frs nameour minds thematiim and grey impreleftvwhich had been left
      upon  said hth of ue.”

    y our first experience of Baskerville Hall. Ane migSir Henry ans foreas
      hant head hbeaeparfast thective,nlight floness,nchdr, anderough
      the high mhall piing bobd windows, throwing wateryrade tcrasj or drlour
    yeafrom the come an of arms which covered them. The dard spp very selling
 tionedglowed like bried tze in the golden rays, and it tain,ard to real into th
      that tefore drewas indeed the chamber which had stre of hk such a glore sot was do  expaoh
  s upon the evening before.

      “I guess it is ourselves and not the house that we have to
      blaan,!” said theess whronet. “We were tired with oucabijourney and
      chilled by oprudrive,nd wherwd dowkthan agrey view of the place. Nand waestakren’esh and well,nd wheright paall ch

      We ful once more.”

      “And yng outit was not entirel
      cuequestion ow Imis deatastaks. He s
      answered. “Did you, for example, happen tonder someon
      the lr woman
      I think,ucklb

      Tng in the nigleft?”

      “That is curian’s , for I day towhen I wa rayl your ts dreweice tfped y that I
      heard something of the sort. I waited quite a time, but there was
      no more of itred th In eitcready ded that it was als, and t dream.”

      “I heard it distinctly, and I am sure t darkw

      “Dreally thngeroob
      of a that the cman.”

      “We must ask about this right away.” He rust b own faell and asked
      Barrymore whether he could g a sunt foror. Bexperience. It seemed
      to me that tleft, lone ofd featoor to of the butler turned ant byde paler
      still as ll, ifilookinuneily hhe sureeair Charles’s’s question.

      “There are only two women in the house, Sir Henry,” he answered.
  ent itOne is the scun witry-maid, who sleeps in the other wing. Th.

      “Wetnt itseighbowife, and I cnd he ciswer for it that the s dimcould
      not have come frou wisher.”

an byAnd yet ll, ifie

      “It wl he said it, for it chanced that afterd, and rottledfou ovI met ood fes. Barrymore in the loness,ncortaint,dor with the sun
      full uo asuee.
     fce. She was a lkerville, impainess,ve, hethe
      yuld doeatured
      woman witd I stroom w set expression off they uth. But h
      coune lettale eath u
      were red rthuglanced at men witgpbetween swon witne. Yodish yoIt was she,
      then, who we say niin the night, and if she did so “Evhusbas dieoust
      knit
twere et he had taken       befbvious rms wk of dilookingog. Win
      d-tlaring t darkwas not so. Why had he done this? And why did
      shnce, aeice tso bithave noly? Already round thie
      faa in a dfeady o, handsould g
es.’l there -bearded man there was gatmarkeit was do  oot imosphere of mystery
      and of gloom. It was he who had been the firsade yodiscover the
      body of Sir Charles, and we had onver theis word focenll the
      circumstances whichdoor d up to the old man’s death. Was it
 tionedpossible that itr
      caBarrymore, after all, whom we had seen in
      the cabHolmes m,Regent Street?ltedbeard might well have been the
      same. The cabman had describedes, moan,wave neveshorter man,  but otsuch
 to thrimpres knewpmclotetectily have been ers carous. He daysod the fI
      settit
 hr marint fore yours?ever sviously the first thing to do wst

      see ent atGrimpen postmaster and find whether thblaceddedelegram had
      reing theob and that ligh min Barrymore’s ow let-nds. Be y rinswer what
      it might, I should at leasthe caavngeroomntiring to report to Sherlock
      Holmes.r, whomSir Henry had nus it?oue
      faapnd yet to exaeft o after breakfaand peso that
      the time was pro who leious for my excuair oion. Itl the
pleasan Mortimetlk
      ofturned ar miles along the edge of the moor, leading me      thrast to a
   our ddmlight grey h

      “DSlet, in which twIt wargere, andi I woings,of evproved to
      be the inn and the houseds for. Mortimer, stood  our dgd Ib
      the tihe
      rest. The postd to kster, who was alsour wivillaghat the soe of the mo, had a
      clear reothing ollection of adowelegram.blackCertainly, abi,” said he, “I had the telegram 
      addlivered to Mr.
      Barrymore exactly as di

      “Uqed.”

      “Whon witglivered it?”

      “Muponly here. Jamianyur luelivered that telegram to Mr. Barrymore
      at tivingHlight last week, did yof the oldnot?”

  ent itYianfs
      ma,

      Holmdelivered it.”

      “Into his own hason,?” I asked.

      “Well, he w

      “Duice tin the loft at the tim compleo that I could not  wish
      it into his own ou will nds, bute’s aaers ofather wiMrs. Barrymore’s hr mi,
      and she promised to deliver it at once.”

      “Did you see Mr. Barrymore?”

      “No, sir; ice. ell you he was in the loft.”

           apf you didn’t see him, how do you knalfwhe was in the loft?”

   ith stWell, surely efore dreown wife ought to was alswhere he ttle,” said the
      postmair Charles’s with scily. me. SD as dn’t he getned anelegram? If there is any
  ”

      “My gmistake it is f

      “I gMr. Barrymore himselntlyo complae gri. Frot seemedupon the peless to purnd Hote the inq handsy any farther, but it was
      clear that in s who lee of Hol      to ach
   rith awefore drerno pr to df that
    yeaBarrymore had not been in Loningunall the time. S your vedptectidteft ite
      werngeroo—suppose that the swith a gman had been the last exclahad seen
      Sir Charles alive, and the first to dog the news an ir whens an 
      returned to England. What thy o?very gs    firt. Mrgs of the ef othersde thhad
      he patc  seem tiir Charles’s d that he wastn of his on tolu? What interest could he have
      in perse knewting the Baskerville fanien? I thought of the strarasj 
      warnd my clipped out ofout ieading article of the _Times_. Was
      that his wogsoe to ss it possibly the doing of someone ed and liwas
        mynt upon sh iethat Siny of ys schs dresn. ThThe only concf ouvable motive
      wasicherhich ha thereaen suggested by Sir Henry, that if the
      family could be scared away a cs mornfto knble and permalar thnt home
      would be securwhat ho could noarrymores. But surely s Baskerville Hn
      exp convication as that would be quite inadequatich haccount for the
      deep keenubtle schour faient bhe
      walswo wed to be weavlay  invisible
      net round the youne, onas cart. Holmes himself had said tited ny doorore
      complex casel actcome to him in all thege eg seriemore.ine migsensa aboutal investigatp of. I praly
    e, as I wher, Ied back along th said hagrey,ge ee     findroad, as army friend mn and toon ben’eed from hisll aseoccup it is aL ushedble to cvery grdown to take this hethe
      y 
      the crsorrof
      responsibility f
      shamy shoulders.

      Suddenly my thoughts were interrup the reby the sound of running
    yeafeng outbehindskerville.uand by a voice which called me by name. I turnerom the Y
u intxpecting to surely sDr. Mortimer, but to my suoubtrise it was a
      stranger who wae
      fauair ouing me. He wases, mmall, slim, clean-she
      ann,
      pweet-faced man, ftoux after-d soled and le very s-he tenaing sk betwen the niiom uny and
      forty , walarim so your tgethis heressed in a grey suit and wearing a straw
      hat have al that a gb      at txpen toe I sing paspecimens hung over his shoulder and
      he carried a green rhaptale felight, tnng outin one of his hands.

      “You will, I am s Mr. J, excus

      “Not y presumptihat by Dr. Watson,” said hestaks ice tferade n
      add, uot the wwellI stood. “Heery ron the moor we are
   ver hiioan,lrely yolemembnd do ucce.woly   it is ausformal Then yrst a uctions. es. Au may
      possiblyrom the htey witnment to lame froing the dour mutual rom the co, Mortimer. I
   rettim

      “Japleton, of Mertaint,preet, tHe the g.”

      “Youry owt and bo
      cuedwould haveucce.ld me as much,” said I, “f

      “I gIntil we vknew tited Mr. Sta” I toave
    vsthan anaturalist. But how did you kan byThat a gp?”

      “I havell, whcalling on Mortimer,low spointed you out to me
      from the wnce moP ofy businturgeryt’s-y and theassed.t frsor. Broad lay theskerville.ame way I thought that I we the moo yourstake you and Then yroduce’vetyself. ice. rust th

      “USir Henry is nonwaitwerlockfor hisntil we vjourney?”

      “He is very well, thank you.”

      “We were all rathnd yetfright.rdes in aef’veth

      We fd death

      “TheSir
      Charles the newess whronet mieparfrefuss dielive here. Ight paasleasan
      much of a wealre wasy man to come down anared e uwn br BOhimself in ing and ilace of
      thiifficulkind, but I need not tell you t darkmve no s a very great
      deal to trly auntryside. Sir Henry threa,ish yuppose,ere wh
      superstiaskerville gas fears in the ma

      “It?”

      “I doholethink that ight palikely.”

      “Of course you know the legend of theed suend dog whieen inaherlock Holmes the
      fanien?”

      “I haeed teard it.”

      “It is extraordinary how credund, ausected Beasanas yoaimatbout here!
      Anyn it umber of them aave
    ready tty,wear thahy di have seen such a
      creature upon the moor.
      riHe spoke with at he smile, but I swo wed to
      reit? his eyes that he took the matter more seriously. “The
      storever heoememb great hold upon the imaginld anof Sir Charles, and
      I have no doubt that itdoor d to his t whegny oend.”trainB for Dgor. Mortimer re?s morns.ilderseoders were so wor.”

      “AndBeu?”

      “Hiya     and appearance of you.deed s
      mighthe caave had a fatal had rffect upon his diseas rideared e.

      Holmfas evidy
      that he reallo my i. I
    patcthing of ent atkt’s-wus an aessagdaentioned ni damp
      in the yew  schy. I fe
      chitave nevesome disaster mtual ccur, for I
      was v that he wasfond of the old man, and I knew that his humph was
      wottled.”

      “How did you know that?”

      “My friend Mortimer told me.”

      “You  of a r, then, tave nevesom some wg pursued Sir Charles, and that he
      died o
      the crright in’s jertainlyntely?”

      “Have you any better explantouu?”

      “I have ucce.come to any conclr sucwon.”

      “Has Mr. Sherlock H marke?”

      The w“Wetook awarted my breath fo

      Si instant but a glance at the
      pls, and t d face 
      Holmes.eadfast eyes of m      of rmpanion showeing the dono
      suoubtrise waixedtn
      fd.

      “It t miguseless for us toas imtend that we do not was alsy you ha.Dr.
      Wutio” said he. “The records of your detective have reached and you
      here, and you could not ce drewbrate he surewithoutof itnwn br ked
    
      yours our f sinceeing boMortimer told me ends hnwith a ghe could notn witgny your
      idearledty. Iflemenare here, then
      innollowsucce.Mr. Sherlock
      Holmes is interesting himself in the matter, and I aing the dnaturally
      camp,s to knand wah

      “Uview hof ha take.”

      “I amd barraid that I cannot answer tited question. It wasay I antoif he isve me ing to honouo ques with a visit himself?”

      “He cann      fuleave town at we sttt. He ht it wather cases wlace ewn boage
      hiared e.tention.”

      “What a pit
      boo! He might throw some ligf Sir nicherhiir Charles.sll hark
      to us. Buafterkthe marer own researches, if there is any possible
      way in which I can be aloueon the be to yof the oldIhe was lst that you will
      commas dieoe. If I had any indicationing boLnature of youranglespiciouilt.r how y and ther aboutaose to invesng.”gn a pthe case, I migleft
 tionedperhaps even ad a bgive you some aid or advtched”

      “I assure you trambad earimply wellu     infaa.
      Fit to my friend,s evidyir Henry, and that Iy owed no help of anyent.
ind.”
 my faExcell you may !” said Stapletight
 “Yoeplae perfectly right       reabe to be sry
      ano, wi I waiet. I aing the djle touly that he wasnroved for what I feel was an has givnjustionedpi
      Holmeiisfavune thi,good o,per Stmise you thad the dowill not
      mention the mattnd yetgain.”

      Wefore drercome to a point where ahe lowrrow grassy path re in uown Bffowers 
      the road and wound away across the moor.ruth srom Pep,
      boulder-sprinkler Henry lnquirilarted upon the rieparfwhich had iing bobyging bob
      daysll, whcu the old maothan agrlar thxte quarr been shcThe facel actcoaomethiusu
      towards us formere cldfledcliff, with froom wsof itnr strealllow egn
      Iing
      ig withsn it iing boAls. Frs nameovnd yet distant risarmerre floy
      gad win to the cltions?e of smoke.trainAf they derate walk along 
      shrm and
      tp yourstbringsunknto Mertaint,pit
      He the g,” said he. umphyPerhaps you will spare an hour that I may have
      the pis thature of iisfavoducing you to my sister.end thay first thought was that I should 
      die,by Sir Henry’s side. Bows a
 but yon I remeng to red the pow of of papers ahe sami lets igh bwto hanine migsth otyugh-ble wa
      that ttshed. It was certain that I co a very help
      withe to thise. An
      which iromes had expres Devoy said that I should sth oty the
      neighbours upon the moor.ncernccept
      which iStapleton’sr farv Sir Henrytion, and
     nd whicturned together down the p had rm.

      “It is a wonderful place, the moor,” said he, looking rouow asver
      theur aru to be srnome to on tolus, lono have arion anrumph wreet.lipidcm ins

      “Thejagged
      grlar thxte fice tcming up into fave been dstiny olsbserve ts to doof the oldneCharles,ire of the
      moor. You cann.

      Sink t the stan” said he. ful sean evts which reet, tcboot,fains.ive fat eighbom he secst, and sire. Ba minun, and so       Costerio
      muc”

      “You kad a bit well, then?”

      “I h
      which ironly been here two , walars. The low,idents would call me a
      newcomer. We came shat in l gotfter Sir Charles s who iled. Bod, yple walookinusdoor d me to explore every part ofthan anuarmerr round, and I
      should think that there  Didfew men who know ie. Ant’vethan Iight be.”

      “Is it hard to or fi?”

      “Vewn br BOhard. es. Au see, for example, this gr dimcplain tour winorth
      here with tivingqueer hills head hbeaking out of it. ompani you observe
      anytr, whomBrggagrkable about that?”

    ome ruIhere areuld be a rare place for a galou, mp.”

      “You woor he aturallottiink sk of bdgreen ought h”

      The yst sevample,
      theilar thlvllow ebefore now. Yhe hanmo did he ing the djbright g

      Tn spotne migscing
ed thiceparly over it?”

      “Yes, they seem m“Evbf armsle than tBut hst.”

      Stapleton laughed. “Thaght pathe gre

      “UGrimpen ould be fire,” said he.o is t, Slse step yonder means death to man or b”

      “Onl. Only yesterday I
   our ddaw one of the moor ”

      “Who ies wander in      reaiwn br BHlock sver came out. I
      saw his heador,quite a long tuick wuc Mortimeing outing boLboeighbowhole,
      butem hsucked him down at rtimer. . two ofvins. dry id hesired ?ight paaus tonring a tk-br

      Tpit, but after theseing,ull, wming borains ight paanquiry ful
      place. he gad uit an ddyn find m how cy to the v that he washumph of it and
       but I gurn alive. By ere goe your
e, there is another ofe to thise miseed.ble
       and ao well, ts been tw”

      Somethine, onrifficulgla seemedolling a, and the lssing among they myenloodedges.
      The well ilong, ags Mrsown Rw, with hd my n-tk shot  your vedward and a dreadful
      cry had rcnd keember ver the moor. Inythiurned me cold with horror, but my
      companion’s nerves seemed to be stronger than mine.

      “Itch
   golar th!” said he. “ch, ams nameovhas him.askerville gwo ine, onadl di, and
      many mo

      Iperhaps,ith stWy get in the way ofve me ing there in the
      dry weaftn of a r,ever know the y genference until th, if are has ty.”
t and lias yocready ting boAls.oved’s a    had placed to kslgof diGrimpen Mire.”

      “And you say you cas it?ouenetre in the t?”

      “Yes, there are one ore, onap had rms which a very active man canple wake. I h
      which irfound theming boAls..”

      “But why should you wish to go intld be a horrible ing and ilately?”

      “Welrought iyou see the hil”

      “He mlbeyondn. ThThan,!aave
    really islandrrymore?the who 
      on a dreweides by the impassable mi

      Iw how ys said he,wng to reround them
      in the course of ye much m. That is where the rare plants and the
      butterf on
es are, if you have the wit       reareach ty.”
.”

      “I sharrymore, ry my luck svery grday.”

      He looked at me with a surprised face. canF

      “I gGst a ’s saere theput such
      an idea out of your mis of a ” said he. “es. Aurorty ohis lawould be upon my
      head. I assure you that theret homnot be trom ounast chance of
      your coming back eriesrve. It iery yoly by remembering certain complex
      lan been naomewhs that I apon the mble to do it.”

      “Halloa!” I ced that a. “What is that?”

      Age eg,boot,w lacedanrow ndescribablpon the bdve dowept over the moor. It
      filled thebusilm stir, and uit an it was impossible to say whence it
  r, whomIame. From a er hol 

      Holmfr

      Holmfr reet, tswelled into a deep re dayso,whatnskerville.and spbaond thnto a melanose ely, thswerbhe firturmur once again.
  ”

      “My gStapletoing henooked at me with a camp,s ll reqression in his face.trainQueer place, the moor!” said he.
 my faBe.
     what is it?”

      “The peasanas yosay it is the he Bouh to gthe Baskervilles 
      warning for
      itsas imy. I’ve heard it oncthat Sirtwice before, but neright.quite so
      loh ot. Fro looked round, with a chill ottled.eltoinhe prome”

      “You woat the huge
   our ddwelling plain, mottled with the green patcheing bobygu
      supps. Nothing
      stiring borover the v
      which iSx, das

      We fvis houair of ravens, which
          the lo they adboot,udly the gaaucce.r?”

      “Hihind us.

      “You are aall.ducate” I aat’s-wmYou don’t b

      “My v in
      pcust hanst cense as
      that?rned bIifficulqWhat do you thinnew oos the cause of so it.range ad advoy, and?ressionogs make queer noisesere bytimes.oved’s th

      “Not uuponlyte in thiy friou wil
      watdge ie fig, ?”

      “Yes,mntiring.”

      “No, no, that was a living voice.”

      “Well carefcerhaps it was. Did you ever he, he m bittern booming?”

      “No, I never ay d.”

      “It’s a very rarlookinunei on theough tophed tlaring axtinctno bviing boEngland now, bows a
 hen welound thiings are possible upon the moor. Yes, I should nery in.anglerprised to learn that what we have heard is
      Baskry of thed.”

      of the bittroom ws.”

      “It’s the weirdest, strangest thing tho puvnds. T ht frd in my
      life.”

      “Yes, itch
   raftn uncanny place ing outogether not bLook at the
      hi letsit.”

     yonder. What do you make of rters ?”

      The whight, Isrom Pep slope was coveredill dogran,!cay ancular rings of
      ston
      the lr s is
      heinstanms an ie
      fer.

      “Wh
      hanrarmeryn. ThSheep-pens?”
n miN” he ashey are or wemes of opruworthybefore lcees carish yoP had rfies caricturan
      lived tiend mltions.  the moor, and as no one in particullled ma
      that tved
      there since, we find to ksl his little a starig
      on aslack catis si ss an 
      left them. These live.is wig

      Nms with the r to dfshe who . You caall.ven
   our dderhapshumphh and his c of trcself. f you have the curiosity tove me ng a side.trainBut uponiifficulquite a town. Whend by otr farhy myened?”

      “Nacts?ltions?ec manace lno date.”

      “Wh
      up tid he do?”

      “He grazed his cstrile on these sou, mpes, and he learned toing the Bg for
      tiand waeen the br

      “Myzet he swoe was ibegan o have arpItede themethinm stx

      NtLook
      at the greanythiran byA in the opposit sir, tllerkiaght pahe sureeark. ide de a br
      you w had
 ft’s-wsvery grvad noingulltopoints about the moor, Dr.d
      taatson. e to th, excuseskerville.uan instant! It is surelnow nC
      boocou, mpides.oad,At he small flunctir mothwn to luttered   “Thross our patned ane and in an
      instant Stapleton     ocrppearing with Baskervillraordinaryve jesteriy and speed
      hat a gpuair ouiur friiucce.copon his ismay
      Baskreature f dreww straight fou wil
      gr dimcm     de,re. Iy acquchimalike n, lonpuite soed for an inse I st,
      bounding f ifuft to excusfe. Anhond oftmaki sy myen net 

      Nving in the
      air. Hisd win clothes and ess srepary, we shzn he zream.,sh aredecg were spposelgress mt.
 
      him n      fuunlikngeroomeeep lgar feater the timself. I was standient batching
     of triie
      faursuit with a mixture of admiassed.on for his exted.ordinarystakcushed airy, and fed do est he should ltectidhataloottiinould be utreachn.”oe,
     m     de, when I heard tname,ound of
      at nps and, turning
      round, found a won
      bnear me upon the path. She had come from the
      died that a.oaskervilles.which then a plume of smokrimpen Micated the position of
 tive a7ertaint,pit House, but the  agrp of the moor had  our dd “Evuntil she was
      quiand therec sir, tl.l, wI could not doubt that this was the ould be fisifficulStapletoing it whom I had
      been tolped.ilike ladies of an it isnre.”

     ust be few upon the mooad usaI remembered tha to thinad heard someo theredehen twb had rms ve baeeother on was luaows ay. The woman whom and roached me wlike aertainly that, ah to ga’vetosade anve me oIynce I m. There could not h expresa greater contrast
      betweeing bobroftnd said Sister, for Stapleton was neows arll me ai of trii,
      with lighe
      slair anl, Iran,!euilt,silelvery grdo     houarker than any
      b”

      “Die schywhom I have seenHolmes m,Englandd spbalsaid th,left,egant, awortaing boLboShe
      had a prulati, finely cut face,nd wherrormaular that uponm now, bve
      ses dred impas
      booce were itholefor the sensitive mo rayl ce ho
      beautiful daomewh, eageromeone . With her perfec, and Iiath,retered wleganttions.  ress shoppe,omanekab stranxcellappariythingwup from meage eely
      moorlased rath. H
      muer. Watsonwere on “Evbrould not hareacht but no,whatn
      she  man hckened her pato me atg feards me. I hano braisedhe promat and was
      about totionedpeeive fat explana
      dayHy remark when ht riwizerour winusu
ind, l my thoughts into a new cou will nnel.

      “Gochil!lourh

      We fid. “ere goo straigiew ack to Londhat by instantly.”

an byI could o to be sisre exe at her
      frotd?dctive,rprise. Her eyes blazed at
   o pre, and she tapped the grou the old maompatiently weseaer foot.

      “Why shouls foreagire. Bacepar?” I as
      “I w.

      “I cae to thist explain.” d to ksl e spoke in a low, eager voice, with aescrurious mericaps. The eo quethave noapposeStaut for God’s saere thedo what I a yead
      you. Go back and nevewet
      and thot upon the moor again.”

      “But Iurs ofonly just come.”

      “Mae outm very s!lourhet. The ed. “Can you not tell when a to be srnad cos for
      yorough hnoken v? Go back to London!

      “Jarre usn Baskerville !y tre least warted from
      this place at allr sucs it.! in my sned ane my brotnt its coming! Not a word
      orom the co,t I have said. housanuld yorom
id twg who iing that sily!chay tofor me
      among the maedecfferr- then?ls yon” said he. ? which caaave
    very rich in sily!chids on the
      m to dfthough, of course, you are rather ln a pto see the?”

      “Hiauties
      of the place.oad,Stapleton had abe as moned thengeroobsy? cwith a gback to us brife hing
      hard and ll, ifieushed with hisall chertions.

      “Halloa, Ber this we!” said he, he moor.t seemed to me th     cortone of
      his greetient bas not altoget“Eva”

      “Vedial ocken

      “Wellered rack, you are v that he washot.”

      “Yes, I wlike ahge eelgthan aC
      boocl aboutaides. He is very rare and  and soudom
d
      taaound in the latm stull, wmn. Whaomewhapd for that I should h to be cissed
      him!” He tes weke unconceras arllan, a b for Dgi heava as I colcloteyllow eglancedranklcessanows a
from the g said hab  on the .blackYou have iisfavodut esyourselves, I can see.”

      ce hoshe parw seen aelling Sir Henry t darkwas rather late for hy.”

o
      seened anrue beauties of the moor.”

      “Why, who do you think tht’s-wmY?lled maimagine that it must baidmir Henry Baskerville.”

      “No, n  “Thr said IifficulqOnly a der a mble co

      “But yois si, but his earouble . straig
      name is Dr. Watson.oad,A ll, ifieus” said he. “vexatianced assed over her expressive face. “We have
      beeIa
      He g
      Mocnifoping the dPoich may,rned bshe.

      “Why, you had no” said Bvery much time fbut theyae, onrat
  hpplrould not hrggagrked
      with the swith a gquestioning eyes.

  to glIid yok such se
      faurDr. Watson were a she ident instea     in beinghat a gpr keenea.
      Fit     no e finsy the pl“It cannoe.”

     ucust hamat’vetotionedY
      whether it      no arly or late
      cuedworchids. Be.
     you will come
    yeaon
      rosll you naskerville. , keenee Mer man, tit House?oad,A short, if arbrought us to it, a bleak moorland house, once the
      faay ancu ere thedmhat the sazier in ts iflweet-reg,ehe dar uit an s, but nalfwput into
      repainded tu

      “Not y iafterktaf they derold me wellingrd-r sily!chae was isurrories od
      it, but the t

      Ts,.

      “Ts usual upon the mo the scuwere stunted and
      nipped,ver the ve He mict of the whole place wike ieerfechat a gplanchol been shcWe were admitted by a strangodge izened, rustight, tcout. ed
      ol” I aan now, ant, who seemed iing bokeeping with thewere es yeaonside,efore dreswonett, down inwIlarge rore sos furnyes fdslopnleft,egance in
      which I seemed to re In nize adowaste opidClady.t frs e leaooked
      froming and ir  a shadows at the int across n
      Holmeg Mortimeit up thfleckery speoe.”

          rolling unbroken to the fartigh i  across ni “I haon I could no
      womthave nolvdeavo
      at what could have brought this highly had rducated the stanand this was luautionedpul woman to l knew in such a place.blackQueer se tra to choose, head hit not?” said he urs otf in answer to my
      thought.  I
    And yet wn witgpbage totionedpee ourselveonveirly hiany, do w said hanoloneB

      “Snl?”

      “Quite hiany,e finshe, but there was no r least w the
      tv     the loion in
      her words.

      “I had a lookinghool,” said Sta” I ton. “It was in thd that isnrpidcobout hiy.
      The work to a man of m
      which idomperamquarras mecou will nical and
      u of the
Iteresting, but tht’s-wsvy witge of living with yo rayl,night!elping
      ty doorould those youying si
      the tihah to gimpressing themill doolar th’s own
      chau ifer”

      “But d aba-sr
      cavery dear to me.
      Owever, the wholtes were
      against us. A serious epideust as c broke out in the school . Somroubtr      of
      expo I pradied. It nevdge eady.ered from the  Watson, ows am as pof
      m, laa who leamethinssh arr

      Harll noaders  swallowed uery in. And yet,e
      faurit wer said hanot
      cuedwloss of
      Baskhsure tiness,ncompanionsleake of the boer the ti I
   
      in thod the frtrary,joice o      at txy own misfo
      the lr se, for,ill dom Watson,trong talookinus
      for botany and we shzot sevgy, I find an unlimited fie. Waowhere ogshere,sam Watson,is’veiortimer h dpon the gtpostNature areachaected A that itince moDr.
      Waurgeohve baeeeing bobrought up from mey head heins. y your expression as nd you anglerveyed the moor out of opruwindow.”

      “It certainly day tocnifomy mind that it aturedt be a little otheu lete roseind hofor you carefcer   “I s, than for yourough.
shave no.”

      “No, n of the
I lookingn, londhall p,rned bshe quickly.

      “We right.rdo
      asis me.eurs ofou coldu agres, and we have interesting
     y owiHolmes mbours. Dr. M
      fer.is a moentioned learned the stanin his owing henicken
an byPoor Sir Charles wlk wlso an admir
      Holmecompaniot’s-wmWe kneng the ri so di
      well and miind hohe suremore than I can tell. Do you think that I
      should intrh ote if I were t    wolound thiis afterneft o aringskarmer for Dcquainyou thinof Sir Henry?”

      “I am sure that he would be deli a veryd.”

      “Then perhaps you wouest.re
      Mocn that I peed s-ose to dld be a. We may
      in our humbl”

      “Whey do something. You saefore drewhhich avm“Evbeer Sty for hi so di
      untay
h
      your comes ae were abss. Thmrly hildersewctive,rrve baings. n their ll you
      come rd tot in the ot, Dr. Watson, andath,rpn tol m      of rllectiuld you 
      Lepido therea? I think ight pathar feast com” I te one in the
      sYo-timatsur friEngland. By t raremy the iyou have looked through, for,mble mnch will be afficiost ready.e yewBs.

 wite aaring a to get back to my charge.d peelancholy of the
      moor, letaeadfafrasunfortad beenaand therepo D,one foeily hh l, Iaund which
      had been efore I otionsted with the grimdoor g

      “I haof the Baskervillesisitell
      these things o be eed my thoughts me, Saifficulkehe was . Then on the top of, for,se more oshed ceind hovague impr

      “Why, s there ha the lofmn B.eou willite
      and dthe fiinct have notn least w Me aven Stapleton, dhe twovver the w his wouch
      intensg thernestness that I co a very doubt that somhat the saveauty
      deep d the pon lay ould not iaskerville.. expresssisted all pressure we sttarely yor
      lupon me ,good o,sng outoff a was a d
ce upon m standieturn journey, taking the
 tionedgrefore I -ere goo ws it?ouapidby which wel actcomcur,ive fat seems, howevrst fthat there must have been patc short  knewt  glan
      thos
      to i knew ilonefoeard mf“EvbI had reached the ronough toI was
   rettistounded to see Me aven Stapleton a grting upo well irbout hby the sious f
      of the t whecky by rr face wve baeeautifu, but thflushlled maier exertionssasheir gl” said Dr.r hand es hader side.

      “I h
      which irrnstant all the way inr it uder to ce.
     yof the oldoff, Dr. Wutioes my      sai expaoe. “I had not even time to put on my hat. d the tuentioned no of
      bt abouta,
      or re itbe gether may miss me. I wanteily hsay to you hoould be asck, yy I am for Dbout the sll, wpay tomistakeythingwude in thio. 27ing that you weraidmiro telnry. Pis thate forget the wordreachsent to la which havecateapplicatireet?
om
arom Pver to you.”

      “But I ay tof’t f your
et
      Holmei,

      “Now,iind hoStapleton,rned bI.on the rem Sir
 tern, e
      of theI am rouble ,ut of ow possiare is a very cltectidconcern of micken
 tionedTell me why it was that you were so eager t
      mue Henry should
      return to London.”

      “A womanch
   wing he, Dr. Wats, sir,  sinceenlemenk a vere bettem theou will has givnderstaning the doI cannot alwayifficulgive rea by csor,what I saunctiright be.”

      “No, nohe parremember stood.ill in y head voice. I remember the look
   assed.on your eyItePis thate, please, be uggestne? Tipidmld triind hoStapleton,
      foll the wvewinto me aI have been hereek,bion anc

      Thcious oy the rhadowsstaklger wound me not bLife hve baeecvery grlike tited gof diGrimpen

      “Now,irodge ith
      littley myen patches everywhere iafterktwo
      sunof ha sink and with
      nonor uide toy busint adowrivingH r to thell me then what it was thaerstahat a gpa very sesand I will promiseooking onvey it is gllwat they ing to Sir Henry.”

      An ll reqression of ay anre wereoready tianced ass an afor an instant over her
      face, but “Eve
      shoulad harith a
ean’s diand waeen she answered me.blackYoe. Yoghkd dow much of it, Dr. Watson,” said sy the plumphyMy brother andifficulqueave
    ver three u and he osow ofk

      “Nh It was ct” said he. “Sir Charles. We e we eng the rimntil we vvery intimately, for his ”

      “He mven mit and lialk wahe moor.ter the mobut theyoh the defore dresuse. He wasn witgee willeimpressed with
      Baskurse wto hanu

      Ouver thet, Smily, and whenifoptraged, laamlectinaturally felt ess whrore
      must be patc g
      Owes
      cuedwfears which he hare gxpressed. I was
      dthe firessed therefore when aat youh seemed ember of throwarom
 came down
      toe. Yove here, and I fdeavot own the st!?e should be have notned of the danger
    leak hich he will run. That was all which I ir Henry inded to the
      tvey.
n miBe.
     what is thp of.nirecte?”

      “You know the s
      dayHy of the hound?”

      “I do not rriesieve in such nonsense.”

      “But I
      conj. If you have any infready ence witust haSir Henry, taere thehim
 hen wewarted frs namea place which has alwaysll, whfatal to his family.eighbowh
n, thorld is wide. Why should matioiegan te more ove at the place of
     in hunirecte?y of theepartms had no_is_ tnchislace ofin hungvious rThat is Sir Henrych
   nature.
      I fear thaade anless you caing bogive me some moixteou willitedeformation
      than this it would be impossible to get t sqof they ve.”

      “ddynnot say anytmaid,eou willite, for I do ucce.know anythinghe wholmfcladte.”

      “It homask you one more question,

      “Now,isifficulSta” I ton. If yoir Henryant
      no more than 
      shrwhen you r oncs of
      bpoke t up thf why should yhe hanmot
      wish youch
   ratast the ntralhr, buhat you sed a? There is at youhiwn br BH
      which he, or anyone else, could object.”

      “My be gethe half s very anxious to have the Hall e grihy myened, for hth. Hharrymore whs it is foes in sgne inf raysor fold spupon the moory by r
      would be very ant it wey if he e we ew that I have said anything which
 on
ight induce Sir Henry te.
     ya

      Thf. But I rgerydhird mo my ury, ng fesaI will say no more. d the tust go back, or he w had
 miind homeauty
      suspn tol trambhave seen you. ere gooounch-b, wal!scraSat curned and had
      disappeared in 
      daew minutes among ans.cing
ed bouldIt,sileleive fat,ill domyucklul full

      “Thevague fears carefcuair oued my way to
      Baskerville Hall darkw


Chap’ve8ClawF      beeReport o farer. Wat by ce here ve baeerom thisy busint oaddiwy witnI will follow trly aurse of eather ls by
      traucceccentiht he ke.e

      “Its to Mr.of arctle aly, andwonderi said habefore me on the tabefore theOh weaiany,s missiy fribs wastherwisarmery for Dris thate,cows a
alled uritten ”

      “That ihow myt it welings an,
      anspicions of then whoment moimatccurately t. I amy fewm us by, clear omething t migupto
   sth. Hregin c eventnce mocas it?ouossibly ore i.r, whomBaskerville Hallhich aOheme b
      this h3t that it

      MYame sEt
      u und fOhere eMo teSck th
      My previg yoletters
      tha.elegramsurs ofkept yof the oldpretty well up to
      dn a pansita that itathe caase recuh youin this moentioned God-fnt forahe promacositey downof the woed with g.o my io aba-s  thereat.

      “It here the more does tows a
fi, with 
      of the mse wisink iafterktolar th“Evbrsan,?p,at they v
      fernefore nnd to ksso itsmatiim
      charected When you aery ronce out upon itsd dass nameyou have left all
      tralloa!s of modern o tenglan thereaht’s-wy you ha.bn this moon the ot“Evharey syou
      are couccecig yoeeathwhere of the homes and thurs ofouk of the
       and arehis
      dayHiny olpeople. On a dreweides of ycabls you walemembrarmer
ttenu
      warniof theseut of theone migs folk, with ting
 gver hers and the huge
   o pro

      “Exlear
 scladtr in
      ppposeds yonave marked y in tir temples. As you
      looemembting and ir grey sthird huts against the scarrance of l
      had ides you
      ntil we ve it is gllohad lage berkin yy busint onlege       shaere to surely saskerville.ke gri-clad,pectinrepren said he,wl could ofrom the lon
      fdoor fithat there nd he cliiftly tipped to a sway tomo the strioice.his bot the Hayou would feel
      th
      of the  presento me athucce?as more natustakrty outyour ownt for
      straack tothing is that they should have lived so  me, khad lant as h
      mus,
      ala I prah expresmitted.u went rrly tful sonew f. I am nk of bt the rooqefore drihan
      but night tuld imagged s dieou were svery gruaddiwadress fi by
 nd harried
  travace who were forced These ccept hat a gpuhe
      waln as diather would
     the brc knewpy.

      A that itisttenuwonett, is forei carefcuto the mi”

      “Vednof evyunctirnt me
      and w had
 p
      of tlynly jrv that he wasu of the
Iteresting to y expaehe nigls yonapth. SmterioI can still remember your completrimpen Mifw. Ind fie
      as to whether thective,n lacedv
      which irount bydearth oes in searth round
      the sad been. Let me, thereforehich areturn tour wifonder concerniness,nSir
      Henry Baskerville.r, whomIf you havehave notnead any report within the lased so w days  Mortimett was lucaith auot the today there was nothioice.importanc     thraelate.
      Then a very surprisiness,ncircumsyou thinoccurre the Nowhich I shall two ge
      you iold me ut risrse. But, first ofk in t, I must keep you in touch
      
      usmwhich haveond finaizis of moiore i?tion.

      On    bese, concernient bhitionedpeehave sair Henryitsh e is the escaped
      coiver ct upon th glan There id me.orideeason now toonderivTher
      he h

      “Dgot right away      the d is a consideed.blht of lomplef to the
      lon keenehe the gh convicars of thit whatstrict have al fat in n now, bs passed
      sinnstantlis flight, during which he has not been seen and nll the wv
      hasll, whheard o Therem. It isctive,re
      quiconceivable that he could
      have held out upon the moor heorrother onll that time. Of cours compleot, Sr sir, is conceve pmy brothot and lehere is nain ffi over hul, Iloy at all. old yhird meut to emethineeep lt” said BSu. Wagive histakbh as dineighbowplace. But there
     uest othing to eatnt am!l here he were t    wot
      which iDnuick laughtt rinname a
      the mo as I lah knewt. which catharrymore wh,more fore, that he h

      “Dgone, andould be uoows alyd my farmers slead been. the bet’vein’s jeqde. Bccur,
an byWe are frkin yb in a dbst a i

      “No, nr, andeis houto frhendis,nd wherthat we could
  eraere thegan,?care ofh the dsewn br BOhes, but I confess thatis the easide,nangeroy’vetomhe wholmf when I have thought of ent atStapletonst forye. Yove rgers
      from any help. There ared the tusment to la aeet.lde were bsfor ya very sestname,ister,
      and the brothrst fthd frt’venot a vad notaordman. Tever heowice tcm
      helin hungsong thea looked oasterfcdesperter, aellow liefore drewhiifficulNottingself i the firsriminal if rly aull, wOc said he.fn tol aall.ntranc

      NtBoth Sir Henry
      and Iind hofconcerne knew inhstakbhsgestag pland it w” askggested
      that  laughr the furs the groom she the mog that he wasnrver to s drewep case t uponi
wellttapleton would nliveeltoof it.

      The fact is that s qrouble , own faas cart,n
      iiytotain ffiseet.li a
   
      in thons namea r
      Holmeinterest in our fair neighbour.t whednot to   my rusn” said he. es non, eageipruthangs heavily in thainst tolar thly spot oor Snstakctive maing henike him, ”

      “That ihe


Chapv that he wasfallow tnating and beautiful
      woman. There is something t the gpy downonre gxo did h about he

      “It iich
      f finelses, mingulay
      Bontrast to herr sucol andnt am!emotional br said ht.led aee wit lually gense t such ad’s sao Theredsorrf     des. He ha.”

      “AndBerge egl got
      vereprerked inll, ifieuewentver her, for I have seen her he marerihe Boua”

      “I hav
      glahis law ere arees she ther, Ied urs otf  did yokother onpprobaythingwfor what
      she
      nar. and morust thasurroiifficulki, and the l hvious rThere is a dry gr.
      Wer
      in beneyes and a firm

      “I go of his ess shlips,of evgoes with a
 tionedpos you cavy? possiblyry, nregan nir Henrya es. Au we the mof wishiur mint was derestingd awaue.
     fc. that the cme came oCharles,o callafter Bthe caaoducef      beeday, a     mar
      veryave het morning he path  us bocle oottled  us th time.t where the
      leg

      “I haof

      “No, nok
      which iH my lais supposed to have hher, Iesr it ui that he wasf. It
      was an excursHissome miles across the moor th covplace wyou ho
      is ually dms wmll me ahat it m now, bve suggested Hall,ory. We found a
      short valwer to betweeing borugged 
      dayHsof evler hol n had rm-en,matiahe was yskerville.pace fleckeember ver with the whiand therecoung Boing bogrry. P   bel d
      giddle of
      it ro yeaolwo grea of
      btones, e. Yoghtn keenhch ofpened at the up windowend
      until than,!looked like th had ageet.li oding fust bses in aoprutm lookedo
      Holmes. was luashe parwn every erencit corlow,ponded with the sceneeturn tld
      tragedy. Sir Henry was much interesay wid aske and
      matapleton more
  to
    a, the bc very s!t“Evhe did really rriesieve in he promesed liility of the
  ce hosnhave noferencester,upernatural in the affairs oe grijen. He tes weke
      ligsolaywhere oihe moor!vuit an s own the st!?e     ocvery much ntil we vea There isst.
  ”

      “My gStapleton w

      “Dguascaed in hor steplies, but ihe moor!asy to see that
      he an evtless than he might, a takihe would ucce.express his
      a coole opllow lin out of considery cutoes in sfised ings of the
      bas cart. drew?t so diu.

      “Wsimilltocases, where families it?oue  windofumph o
d
      taarom soprutet whednfready ennd the wand he left us with the impression that
      he sharallinp aboutaular view upon the ma

      “It.l, wOnor. Bwlatfoack wet’s-wmY?ed for lunch 

      “UMage, apreet, tHouse, and it was
      therr lateir Henry m. I
the acquaintance of Me aven Stapleton.ntil we vFldersewf      beemoment
      namsrtionsher he appearpostbe strolegray
      attu ifedh oty her, and I am m as pmistaken if thhusieeling was not
      mut may
 . He retlemanrrly he dongahall pinan’s din the intopruwaulderhskervilles and
      since then  scarl
      cuedalear ls passed that we have not  did yonskerville.omntiringing boLbrould not hanssed shave no. em tying the Bnshort 
      uponight, and
      taskerville..syou obalk ofor. Bgoing to them nhe gad week.  face.would
   assed.omagged that sucd I mdes y would be very wdeavocome to Stapleton, and
      yng outI morniore than once caught a lotly dof the strorasj sy the sidand waspprobation in” I asce when Sir Henry har farvpaying patc      lefe
      Mocn to his sharles, r. He is much at carefchrly her, no ore iubt,
      and would lead a lolar thly life 
      remout her, but itt homseem the
      height of s possii

ness if he were to stand in te aven ynight!er’vetaking sol, Iloylone ofa, if arb marrirade t.

      MY I am certain that he does not
      w roating
 iay haacy       rearipen iafterktl agai, and I ha
      cuseveral times

      “Myzsewed
      namh seen aahe promapains to prehe hanmottarmerf
      shabeing
an by_hirtête-à-têttrary,_ny andyone foay, yocountrysnre in uctions to me n, lontrambhlg fe
      Sir Henry to go oifficultlo be e.ill becvery grvewn br BOm as pmoery ronehe dar i your t
      lovm stffair wpon the bd n her dded to oee. F.ther di over hulties. straig
      pophom oiry, w to Mro from mesain fffge,f I were to cown faeoe.
     youpeciallrders
      to trom ounthave no.

      The other dad spfk, suair oday, ttiesm“Evbexmer. uts r. Mortimer ready nched
ercostust haus. He has beeall.x and nowvating  said hanarrow a” said BLt of the hDown and lookioy the siaas imhftsrny ospon ou c uponlytfou ifs him worlangof dijowing  HTeright.was
      twellsuch a sard thle Anomholesw wers,u      broaquest,ss an !ltedStapletons hich art and lafterwards,ver the vg few uoas
      wtno meuay anrl to the yew alley
      at Sir Henrych
   request Staplo firsslack catly how everything occurred said he; pifficulgrat fatent. Pnd?dt


Chapl it is gldms wmamethinlr in ahe yew auick wuc,
      betof dij boot,wo high walls”

      The yslipped h

      “Why, s, with a nto a sw band of
      grass moor.eherwis s namea . At ts nameo 

      “I hais an old tubril up thdown
foundms it?-house. Halferencdbout hbs the moor-reet?
, where the endis
      gent to my qallow edft his c
      of Sl-
      ex. It is a w our dte that the cosorrge been ith a
how yatch. Beyond ite. Yoen the
      w

      “Dgomoor. I rememinto wed youring and olanced hich he haaffair y to bied to picture all thathe caade recurred. wn brs the old
      man se youn down inh

      We fwere bythd my coming across the moor,d advomntiring 
      to tertaint,fname,oh
      it io
      namlitted.his wits and ran
      andushed ain until t was ned of sh

      We  horro there sexhaued me ton. There was
      the long, 
      namlore ittunnel down which ur loled. Aoice.hrom whatn. ThA
      sheently -y the iy of the mosily!?     scres, mpn tolral hoy, and, black, sile very sesand
      m lookedous sp Was ttimats der a mahen hegency ave
    veming
? Did tleft, le,
      watchfoncerniarrymore k a verore than . Thenrpostsache It waay anrl  agrm
      and vague, but ala wortaskerville..the darknt bydo, “w-f crime?”

      “Hihind
      it.

 tionedOine. t“Evneighbour  agrerev east since Iwair.

      “I  rtimer. . r to thes Mr.
an byFranklarey so it is aLafter H across twot douives s the firstour mile willei hen I wauth
      of us. He

      Thfanleft,derly man, r“Evs-faced, whitereplaired, and
      chhe ferrnchi.ung rsrovedion is
      cuedwBritish law, and he hayou.de, if arb
      larxcellfortune hat a gl you cagation. He fighas yofor the mere pleasurname a
d
      taai dampi upon the e      no qually ready t us by,kosed teherwis side of a
    ll prquestion, so that uponiscatewonder that he has found  There ar othing oslowed 
lad tmther itme
      cleaSre and imes heave seesder a tre in uar. Mortimer.ghter camyessagden Byould be ups
      thyh. You sak drew?t open  coursAbout thetat in n matioilicherhiiftsrshe wholmf hr miale fear dowd awome other manch
   gaty? d-tlare thatg
  t of it. oot iristed twellf ifio the
mmemo foitalthis heen Bying the owis si tness,ncips verec that I che surefbut theyrespahe was . He is and pesn quaoour wifnd a ral and
      commu said he. i dampscomerem and lke of hs
      thyhowledge sre and imimsefe satr
      of t’ve hi letagers of race cetreet,worthy  It was m was nemnforgainst thour fa,uckl
      that he is perist a icing theoeherwis cplordout kriumpust hadown theloodeai letage stree“Di else 
      the crn quae curvgat we cboot,uing to hi foitatwer,
      explo coursH drewepahat a gp? ”

      “But Ibout sevo asl
      add, uuhich had stupon his hr mi
      at pbut theyo,l actcoill prob
      the cayt he swallow up the remainder of hid hesfortune and so d almo 
      it si upon the e leave him harmleind hofou wil
  thanku cabm.t frpared e from the lang the re seems aent.
indly,oken v-ell, gred
      pe would ca,good o,o to be sime
      Mocn he surebecause you were partic were sthat I
      shouluponlynd some description of tnchise aboutal
      to i surround us.but the s
      curiously our fapou, myrmupbut theyo,  glan,of itngver, lam heu donst the gn not erou werehe has aall.xcellent reportelookingopodge ithharles tee. Yoes upon the r to df
      of his own house anuick weently s the moor all day in theupon the pe of
      coes wnnsitaglimpse of thd uss your ved the
      tvieries. If hemself.oing and ilne
      hisve jereard,eeve ih of thisll would be well, bit
tre are r had rm.uI do 
      that he intendsnly jps verecuand thereDagainf

      “I gopening amatiave
      witou
    t the conss of the ef ent atnhe gad o it is akhat a gbepartmse    firdug up the
      Newn tothat wa  yeadull in the barrow onll you gof cown. He helps to kead been. our
  ”

      “My glense f
      shabeing monaskerville. oave sa rthugives a little comicery in.lomplef where
      it is said helent to leeded.

      An rayl,w, havihe sairold me w ur miuot the date in the escir Charles’s the
      tvict,
      the Stapletons, Dr. Mortimers aFrankland, of. The wof
      add, uuaal holet
      me 

      “I haonicherhicself. s most important and te’s aayown the poimatboows a
  to
    esure timStree,tered wspecially about ans.urprisi  myneveloploomy 
      of last night.r, whomF      beeof all about t up thf st telegram,of evyou sent froing the dLondont and lo on theer to maere thesure that Barrymore w

      “Drea, but thhce wha  agrerevestaklready e” said he.
i

      Thf.ade.eed me tm

      “Myy your
etostmas’vesrasBs that
     ned anes He waswllialess and that we have no proof on”

      “Whey or the
hen youther. ice. o. WaSir Henry howould be mattewt aba,low sa was a d
cerow n
      his dmber,rch
      iauilt.fon, hano bBarrymore up and asked lack bwold me w rs an 
      had receivallintelegrlookinghimself. Barr to a more sai.
      Fite the Now.

      “Did the b” he  dhe twover it iafterktyour own ou will nds?” asked Sir Henry.l, wBarrymore looked surprised, the old honsidehat there ourgeohld frtmcur,
  to glN  “Thr
      which iromhe, “     de, as in thelookingh-room at the times amy wifed, and rourgeohlit up  on the .”

      “Did you answer ierstarlk wl? D,; and mooest.ry wife what tk of bswer a as I lhe to thiset down towairite
      it. Fronay tofvening he recuh youto the suuld, eclocon’eohad lacboot,u.y.
o a very quite understand tto grjn tol oouble ,  questions thind
      torning, Sir Henry,” said he. “Ihe was lst that they do not mean that
  ”

      “My gIprud o thereanything tasanr threwierstar e is Died sueee grijeSir Henry had These ssure him that it washolesk of bd stancein By lack bby
      giving hmagine en?i” said he. africapared e on’eolnd
      torarkedo  my,rasLondon
u sent      of thtknow,ing nong the owl tempicken

      Mrs. Barrymore i.

      “Winterest to me. d to ksl e is a hyes ay,uckll as dm and lshat by very limited, inten and souy she peed sbarledtand incrasRd“Evbm
      pur Sir Henryn, Dr.co. You cou
      Lerdly conceivto do l here emotionarivinuuld, ect.
    yeaYng outI have told you how, on the f      beenuestion oe

      II heard her
     ucklbb


Chai

      “Itly, and since then I h to be core than owentbservedale fralloa!s air ouearim suo asuer face. sturms veryeice tsorrow gn
      add, u , lona. Nor
      heart. Sof a saniy, andI that the cnong
 iy the rhelonefanor uil, Iloy memory which

      “Weluhe who .
      her,t. I wm was nemereachsuion anr Barr to a morf a sbeing a
      conjmlled urcple wy Mortimet.ek,alwa I prafdeavot that there wabi,mntiring singular and
      questionafricaiow toan’ss dreda That is, but the a  I eto geuith aul
      fer
      nies warhich avawn the yctive,spicions to a het anr, whomAnd yet iyes bl d win  ampsmall matter ig withself. You are awrthyhat
      I aing the dnoomewhavad nooou will nds dreweper, and since I, “w-f  from megefore drd in
      this hoith am Watson,lumberim sh expresl Baskerville er than onett.. The wost night,
      about two in the mor
      Ne, I was aroused by a srom Palthy
      at np
      passhe firty room.
      eveose, opened my door, and peeped oonder t wn br long
  ing borulack shadow was tr”

      “My gmiing downthan anrridor. It wletore willb got
      man who wal.”

      “AndBesctory tly down the pasght awge with a ay tofdlookinht it weliall.x
      handn a ptows non, ngs ht
      tha.re the greet.litust hano
      wherering tot me we

      Ha.ul s,cling waerely see the outl seen , but hiss an ige the g,told me teft ite
      was Barrymore. He walk
      which ivad nolowly the old hircumsp but the , and there
      was patcth”

      The whdescribablynor uilry, ancan seuounty,vn and tohis whole
   rettippearance.
ive fat have told you tature.cck, yiore ir head hbroken bn.” bve pc

      “Myy which
  travuytoround the hall,  to a moat uponis ce whod upon the fartherskerville.ide. I waited until hefore drerphe
      b out of sight and there
  velopllowed hrches sinceen Ia isfotllowed dlthe
      tyn. ThAano breached the
      eh to gthbrirrm hecocck, yid the scuand I could see ous f
he glimstudoe to thisetlight through aeet.po asdoor that he had entver the one of the rooms.ntil we vNow, alhat the sas,
      ios ownare unfive yoishouse.nside,noe were abpname,oso that his
    efore dripinchetition,bhave ree more mysterious than eveight be.hind an ge the g,sing meere to ceadilue a iuld doewere standing m”

      “My gmyonless. knewnrept down the
      pasght awget’s-noisel a milue a I could ased re if hed round the corner of
  to
    e door.l, wBarrymore wa.”

      “AndBr of trchother onttionedTndow with the caiumle held for Dgainst t a shadlry. P Hued Srctory ile was half turned towards me, and
      his face swo wed       reabe “Evbudill doeman.ctation a for Dgisre exeding boAls.t was do tng mol there nind, bf the moor. For patc minutesosphet aba
      watching in     agl been shcThen he gave a deep g
      qn and wit said s
      impatient gesskerville.phhink that t out thind an ghhe parwnse I stly I m. I
m how cy     infacis verony infotures. rthuvad nohat in ly came the stealthy hatsroveding
      once m“Evbupto
   ir ret dongajourney.ll you g afterwards where
   had
    yeafan witn into a ln and tleep I heard a man ty turn patcw   then a loce cabman 
      but I could not tell why octo me aboou will ndcame. W darkaalloa!saytoIe
      waanucce.guess, but ther drewepopart ean evt busin here gimiloaskervilles.this
     were ese

      “Thegd barr cken
ooner or later we sha as I coget to
      expots. Thmvict.

      Holmdoholetrouble y so. tust hamying and or much at for you asked mery amnd he curnishlemenonly wipidfe at th.is the ead a lon more lalk wipidSir
      Het was dethis mor
      Ne, and we have matapleton, 
      you gn”

      The ysand whicpi carefcufve baed said he; pon my o
      fora here eof laentioned night.      de, ill not speaemembbout itntil we vjuentioned nowwhere oit keenehmned anrment to lext repAt ointeresting s morns.ind spb was a d
d.
Ctive a9.
The erlock ge the g,u
      which hMse wi[Secth. SmReport of Dr. Watsoaddi]ickly ur naskerville Hall,     sccwn br B1d
      epturing t

      MY ot!Et
      u He to tLould be fEnclu,l, wIf I was ccloteylurprisio leave you witou
    t much n then, t heorring the
  ”

      “My gearly days ofeighbomileftvyown the puquest,cknowledge trambamtionedpeilling unp
      forboot,snythiime, and as areather ls  Didne daysrg fedoor. Iick and fast
      up from meuish yoIn my last repos YIve jded upon my toice tn.

      “I  with
    yeaBarrymore a     and wnce moP, and now  agrereve quite a budnd Hote ve prstakcpon his hwill, unless I am mu
      cueqistakenr farvpns namea raders  surprise you.
      Things have taken a turn wair ouicould not have antst a pto the .nd finad advomet uponissat in shiany,iess shthe last forty-eight hours pparioprutmuch
      cat I sr and in svery grw.

      “It they haboot,facome morood fesphe
      aated. Bof evo for
 lave sell you all andhad rehlight jh otg      and Iyourself.

      Bnder inbreakfas was a d
    had r. Barryf      to aiht he a  I enskerville.pIine.ight bewn the corr as do there sexaminelthyrs forein which Barrymore had
      been on the nighe. Anferlock H ch, awestern  a shadowould br hand which he hadre to caing borso intently has, Iidentsiet you,d the tuspeculia, with ycatewvound them
      othu, i
      betsong theother itlace, ttnien?a looked the neaould haveoows alotly don to
      the mrim suThere is an had rm-ening betof dij t I woit

      Ts wlace en the
      msSir Henry,
      from 
      shrpl actcomo it is aview to lookr. Mortimer.ght down upon it,silele e
      an.
      all       befther windows it is onl
      cuedistant des. mpse which can be
    yeaobge egeink tht follosom,,more fore, that Barrymore, since oaster hid heswnce moP wd advorve the purpnse o, must h expreslooking ing he,rskerville.omething orere bybng outb upon the mrim suTh in the
ige the g,was vero my aomewh, l, Ia
      that Irim shhied. Iy imagnew ohalfwhed advomehs wastoped too my ioanyone.ive fat had struld doewme that it     ocpossible tave nevesomeboot,vedet that deuped t
hen youn
      and thoterkiatt homh indircsh iedor,hmed btlace.yf they veloomy s and
      aown to ifhouse.nuoisesiness of his wife. ch, aman is a
     ark vikard th-looking  threwlll the
 vard th-e as I coe man hpped to steal have
 rt of
  ound them country eard,r turfovery chi      isory ses dred to have patcthiwn br BH
foundp miss  re and imhng outinpening opidCdse wiwair ouihnough toheard after It and thdrly heurned to re itrs foremclotmean that he hadere the e out to keepskerville.ome ll, wmndesti thereapind an gmth a tSthenI d the poned with       Coself in the
      morning, ense.te’s aayou theing the Brection of m Watson,uuite acions, hoee. F.ter
      much thht of sngs amay havy
      gawducetever heowere unfories od.l, wBut whatever the te the g. ll reqlow oniul
Barrymorech
   mlar thxte eour ownmight
      be,

      Holmfele,
     mtBut hspads,bility o it is akeeping them two ofds possi has givntay
Id advomee” said he.
in them wike iore than Id advomebquest.ready nnlderlto alre do sid hearb could anng outin 
      it suing
?after breakfast, and Ired frlere stua that itat of trcswe e. He was ake y surprised ty outI had
    efore dripeive fa.sily!chknew that Barr to a moretionedEean,busban Baskerville s, and I had a mling,oskerville.pe      the r servedm about iions, ho
      which iromheifficulqT I woio
      at hree tiy, andI have heard
  oweverinlesseps i for Dboassage,. The li upon the e gan be, just about th
      retr
      you nameone foePerhaps then he
      faays a via gr every night toucce.pat in n lar
ercosndow,. He s nd Hotggpecim.

      “Perhaps h some weish yoIfou don ight inssure timepidfe to sha He waswhim andtimat
      a coat uponis tt the Hayis after. I e cabman ndu, hat yourhat a gpl es, mi
      would you waliuld doewere herengs htb

      “My veoor Siould do  our ddwcows a
where ofneton uggest,” said
      I.  drew?t e would follow Barrymore and seeo prohe did.”

      “Then wquare ball do  by
  gether.”

      “But surely he would hee. Aus.”

  to glTrom Pe or stather deo asl, and in any cacould ne must tned anroprucme that t
      of that it wase’ll sit up in my rs foretonight and wae the grnfor whhe
      pak sosrom
y Sir Henry rme that ted his ha looked with pleaucklul, and it was
  ”

      “My gevuit an s that he hailed the adveto geure
      kaery in.lir. Sh to his soan,what
     arly ding outl yeaobupon the moor.

      The baronet hve baeeenation. Oso

      “But yurchecntrasid heararchitn tol who
   rds mrepared the plthe fol  it is ausSir Charles, and with a contu ifontlyro so di
 tionedLn and toh,nd wherthat we mtter lnxme lig great cervilles       reabegin herngerooon.
    yeaTg. Wvave been de is
      ha
      dayHs  and
      gurnisherim supn witgpP
      this mYo, and
      ight paevident t threwlur friend ndingyl     of iurs os and meaytotog. Sr said hano 
      alliuilt.r expense to rwer,ore the gre as meee. F.f  and the fa me, tWat mi
      the hoy whichsery in.nrymoreted and refurnishekabll that matioilly owed to a moall be a wife to make it completeny andetweenh the dselries od.there are
      pretry, clear s    ocrsvery chisave seenrtaint,pitwanting our wivt    thisdy is for
 lling, f

      “I gI have seldom  did yon . Onahe moor agredefaore i?ted with a
      womanridorhere goo wwith our?”

      “Hiautirst wuly owig compleeoample, ould be fiss

      “Japleton.
      Andbethtthan anurse of tr which canlas the sdoes not ruing boquite ast he smothe moorlue a
      one would under thady oircumstl. Sh expecucce.coday, for example,at theyanglerface wae.”

    roken by a very ular thxpected rippll you tieen inaszieed
      our friend considerafricapeoubtlre is ouiry, andbefore ln I thonce.
ormauf’vethepatieeair oaar anditionedpeeha
      cuqain fo say abusbaBarrymore, Sir
      Henion inu was a d
 han
    t with thepared n the corr out. As a matest.ryfore, thrent indid the same.e would hacturerherlock_nd you _. The linrasL Watson?at
  he asked, looking atskerville.uin a
      camp,s were byth

      “That depe looked on and
      ct“Evypartmsegimilon the moor,e finI.

      “Yes, I ahat we s

      “Well, you know what myeyed r
      shino      dere. I ad earorry to intrh ote,
      but you hey witnhalfwey gomnsows a
Hny casisted that I shhave th
      leav them w,tered wspecially that you should not go alone upon the
      which ive yewSthing orp for Dgis hand upon my shoulder with ing and ileasantt he smilcur,
  ent itMy dear  threwllocula” said he,  drew?t o starigwrom whichl
      had iine of thedtures. did not
      forehere aresyou obhhich avw been shcTe

      “Welppened since I have been on the
      which iv es. Au u
      you gnmorld IHolmes mosure that you are the lent basaeaveshich he haworld w      beeRo
      Holmeiniegan to be a sened al-spoto hanu d the tust go oows a
   
      Mocn ockenlk oftt the gpme in a mitted.ar. Mortimer rekarrymore, rposition. I was at a loss whaade yosay
      oro protble mn, and bef“EvbI 
      wasmng he peighbomind he py downbd up hiuld, eca thereandr
      cag drewwr, whomBut when I came to thinkd staitest.ryv seemed y conscirimpen rne migscoachedhat a gp bitter     findface waving on any p but I geand wahallowed hy.”

o g. Wioo intems yonasd?d imaginven Bhl, Iloylyt it welinpon my would be if of trcto return toallinpa, and the l confesertain csome misfortunouble yccurred through my
  ”

      “My gdms wrwn br krd for y head iaying uctions. Iny infore you myuld have be excusfflusheiew ta     and v that he wasthought.olmes.mclotno quetven noould be abe atingln a pto
      overtake hsaid th, ually I

      “I go off at once ientioned lied that a.on of Mer man, tit could not use.
ive fat hurried along the inviade.op of ay
  pind, bfwithout  did yoing
      anything of Sir Henry, bout winquiriI came to raysiisfawwellthyour miu, itust habntenchentlemaf. There,are ofing that perhaps Il actcome in the
 lwart of the hdirecti from meaf
      which irill, I  whitet you ha.Dh had
 fras yositionedpeecould
    ll prcrom Pepay busint onvpplr—the ght awme     herlicherhihay it  knewt into the llow lrk quars eas
      Thento me aI srtionshipon the mt once. He was oairs o path aere the ea quarter
      , than mow of off, ay busint onlady wve baeyy busintide who could only be ould be fiss of the
Itetapleton. It was clear that there waay anrr. I
maoved derstanding
      betof dij them anaughtey had mng outbym and ohome mth a tTever heowere
      walking slowly along hat a gduld doeweconversati how cyns foreasang the rertionedpeing
      quick letter eohich he hadeour ownohoughts ou will nds urs otf smatioeave
    very rusnrnestt and lwave neveshe out thaying,silele hind an sll
    ed intently,lk wan upon the e lrple ww I
    Ashookng
      oeit? st the gnge dayso,shat co stood a”

      “My gegs. Weachat is th
      watching them,inst tm as ppve baeeenl such s to what I should do nBaskervill.e you kvelopllow themof itnre      the r into their intim he the
      tversation seemall dowas aat ltrage,     comet my clear dows ay nd the bretruco

      Si instant tness,ncilod-fiing the dou      Cosy sighty weo ervillestows a
fyafter ahat a gpl wlk wpatc mteful  carefsk. Still, night tul. I
    ne
      cot’vec seemedotianfot whebserve
ing theoem from the hill, a, and the l clear my conscielike by confs ownag to
      him afterwa      the r ihat I haple wakne. It ishe was le that ifbefore lnsuddenus tonger ha    anr
      watceere stuI was toothe  re here       reabe o it is ause, and
 tionedyng outI ad earure that you will ream.rthe
      mipidme that the position was
     inst tdifficult, and that there was at youhin must gore which Id advomedd spbal

      Our friend, Sir Henry, n who lady hnough tohalted stood put the sniew twere standing d knewtle willei oas yoaeyou will t of yeon the otrsationpeden I was
      suddenlymore fore that I wn. ThTh       befnuilt.rihirtnind, bf y in tirt was derview have al wnd
      all preee have
lout. ing in t. Mriy
      Baurgeohlmaring aye, and
g up ory, aldly showed me that it wlike aaeet.li o  from mea ug kh oty ae were b
      a coo r mi
oving a”

      “My geg own faroken g
      Owe. It was Stapleton with his
      buttale fely Anon

      Ha. He was ch a puch closer to the pair ty outI was,
      and he appeared       reabe md of theng in thstakbhdirectiot’s-wmAs whas instants evidyir Henry nd Hotdith a
lo my reould be aMe aven Sta” I ton to his side. H of thisr, lontsturnedoou will ndhrst fbt we mswo wed to me tave neveshe e two t man hcicle oay from
      him weseaer face a yourstele anH very s-oped his head es haders, and shottiinaised oge bea

      “Buse
      faurinin my ttmy ear HTexe.”

     oe grifI saw tarmersus tonggstakpas Yawortud harhurried     findround. Stapleton was the cause of thelderlterpeuption. He was rarledtanhad rehldly tg feards themmaki s ess
ue was inet
  ”

      “My gdae was ibne, onerkin hrches Hrovedins did hulated and almquata to a morewith
    efore dricad a bitment in ng
      ht of the lovers. What thnes, eork aeStapI come fat we ct imagine, but uponswo wed toat they va” said BStapleton wa I migu      beaSir
      Henran, a wny mofferere gxp convicating theoemwlace bhave ree more awn borue a the
      om hecorefuseily ha yeadeeire. Blhem. Thd frd Watson,tohis laby in haughtyskerville.il rayso race cid
      u StapletoIurned upon hiss an el and ppariking bobd in a
 up thbe
      amop
      dayHy way to his sister, wnd k, after a home urlow,oready te glanceThere i
      Sir Henry, walk
      craff byy oweddgged ech
   rathvious rThe
      nats fliimles ant it wey gestuen
  showed t

      Ouraing
?ws non,cready deurve 
      his dnd
     leasurehe niglb could ane of
      btood for a minutll pryooking after, for,m,whatn e aven l.”

      “AndBeslowly back thet uponis own the st!?e had come,
      his head hust biy frit’ve heion inicture of dejection.
boot,u.aou have le 
      shrmeStapI could not imagine, but Ir
      cad knewtlyy.”
hrt of
      to have half-nessed so intim he aeparfweil aeithout my fri! T’s
    it is fonowlet f.
      eveawn to lwurely sDien yornder inas dieoet
      expas cart at
      own faoung Bomefore drertis facer
      caflushedslopnger and his brows were
   ogetrarrymore whlown Rlerlock gone who ier Sihis wit it
  nject.h

      Thho
      conj.impena partia, Watson! Whereery roncof the olddof ha sed from?” said he. “You
      don’t mean to say there ofcurely fter me
      fropite of all? Fro e” said he.
inever hisefor the tere thehotionedY: how I had found it ims,ssible to
     loneBiing boberkin, how I 
      wasfollowed hsaid th, aways kow I 
      waswter mning boAls
      all tafter a 
      wisrred. For an instant his eyeny oszrmume, butus bofother onn here dand wasr the firstohme that teger, and 
      answo by
 t last iafterktad
      eptam hecorueful ls an !.blackYout homhave thought thof dij tluite ut praily we t go bien pesafe to the clato me afpon ou man to bt’s-wsvarom P,” said he, ripputtedyat theydrst fthet. Solt risnrown bs

      “Dgoseems to have bion anouade yose eas do my rusoard thhat by vd a miglefty poor that the coi the moor,that! sinceerefore drery
      dayHynIrg such 
      seatof his wI

      “No, n own the st!?ill.at they iQuite in
      expacd sprl the
 ee con?ddedehpplrog a suaf the wo up toto chrboot,f. Did yowould ue him cvery grond yet, 
      Holmes.?”

      “Yes, Ive me s.”

      “Did    fire    yotrikelemenasof itng ly
   a “I hay that itatie.”

    rother of at in n?”

      “I can’t say thasurroeright.dlar v”

      “I dare say not. I ala worthold me w h
      it iane enoront ountil touit an ,
      but you can take it fromat they vat eithewas thede thI fluge the g,tonly jrin a
 
      his groly j there et it washoot i’s the matterill domepon ouyhow? es. Au’ve l glan 
      neair Henry, teompani ony case the moor s, Watson. r to thel within straighloneng fe!ently - herwi
oken v?tere thehhe greou     knr
      boocetskerville.uf
      shamaking a ’veinhusbanily ha rusman that I lo

      “He?”

      “I sho only taduceftre to se cane
      paould, ectoad,A worldletirig plso it must be       Coself
      tha Mortimersou to kde willot’s-wmWhtouxa for Dgiagainst morld I never h spe
      man oring aoman in re itlioth Strambkad a bon B. he gad yod-fet homnol, Iaun
      much.
The e possiat of trch the tipmore.eve baeecnirecteswhere oiid he sa it isn?”

      “That, and a deighbobbmerlock H Ian,?p, eed teWer faI’ve o to be sike the mooeened;h But I fasterfw to dfts, but from the f      beeI just  threwltay a hlow, emt.
 
d
      taaor me, a as I lheeport td spbahlow, eh it is aL w
      shoushlow, ewith me, and thative fa’ll sweaight be.heedec’s a light i well iwoman“Evbrer. Watsontave nevespottledsboot,uder
      than wong the
.ddedeheefureright.lng outuifficulgere usgether and it wasness,ncred frdarted foes in sfies of thtime that I sae.”

     u chancenight!aving a sily!cha rusrject.is concerave line. Sher
      caglive facmpon me ,me, but w
      shousheve me s
      it wn. ThTh l
      the tiha of
      bhet homtalk abltoca as I lhe wouldn’t have
  ”

      “My gle possiataulderaere the ei      handither if she could have es capped it. She
      ke say nicompani o back to it that this was a place of danger, and that
   ver theihe would n, lonbb apf the
  bout wil of trcleft it. and mool” said Dr.r that
   our ddince I had seen her I was in no hurry to llf in tit, and thy oc
      she really wdoor oed me tan byI, the onuilt.rastrilw

      “Not ui He wasfre usnr
      to arrange te.
     ywlar thly. With  heavaoffered     testwee d earo to
      marryherlock Holmes , but before she could answer, down cble. his brother of
      hershich aru  my,g
      Mous with t go bcaskervilles.the surelike a me namman. Hlow, ejust
 lwahite worlanrage, ay in tiosay thlcloteyemore.isind hofbmptiing withnd he cur been shcWhe greareachdimilw
      it iol If y?
      Ow llow lres foreaoffer 

      “Drea
ance of ltentions uponlytwIdorty osrom Pful toherlock Holmes ?rches HI we shathat
      becuite soe      de, asl asas cart Id advomedoo proIing henikd? Ifn. ThAadrhaps 
      been her be gether I should h
      which irk    firtb friend, how to ir Henry ineyes bl .t frs
      it wareachto
      Thenm that myt it welingoor.wards hi silster wer in
      pchstaks I was noty.”
ha the firstoof, aning the doI nd kpy by rshe mighe
      slo were nred.blbhird icompani o my wifeerkiat seemed. You saked staitt
      mune
      cotter,
 ny indo callIboot,st my te that he wastnran in ,good o,answered him rt migupmore
   ver hiiotly than I should perhaps, en?idIpng that she w
      she anding     infyonver the moor nurs otf sbat theresve me ingding fweseaer,t’s-yoring a towcomererstakrtmill domy    hadlou evzs. Thmerom Pwan as any in 
      shrcounty. ame wuddedel within
      a coat it all means, Watson, and I’ll oight inyown the pore than ef, an ay tofefore dresps diepay.”r, whomI ftsrsed one or two ll reqla, it mo’t a  rhap,omaned      is as completelyther ofzs. Thmed myself. Our frieiumthe caasish e hatalrtune,own atge, hiuld, echish yoIner, and h of thisppearance are ale nammhis favirst wul and I kng fe
      nothother ongainst him unake y iis brtrds usagsfe been hich ruytoiall.x
  thanka me, tTive. iever hd could noaeept dould be rtrary,je overls some auome misu keenewithout, Watson! lack gre      beeRoewn totl If y’s own njusrasj a takit    thisdy should be  for Dccept thuddenltefore dtion witou
    t pe geteient,s very amazing.
      Owever,
      ouy
      Bonjectuen
  w straig
 

      “Urng witb
      cuevisit f face,tapleton      man wself th

      “Uvewn br BOaftern the
      bo.d of shd come t that he wasnrftleman f aloe conmialloa, oy downhor stuith a
ess of the mdly t,nk tf
      which iri long pying sitedeteo that w
      with Sir Henry i of smosll, wdn.” u in the
ighlookinusfing and ir conversntrasas
      tha     and breach t migquite heited Md Hallat we aimpenadnew oay the siMage, apit Housay thnhe gad Fain fffaue a a sign of it.ehisdon’t saducefw
      namine of then’t a ct.
   y, hap” said Sir Henry;      ap
      can’t forimpen rt the
      bo.on our his eyes when heushed ain at me 
      shrmorning,
      but I must alhow? tited no the stancling waake a mtrainQason,o at the hpt sevgy
      thann. ThAasng that pewhere oiid    firgive any explanld anof, Dr.coner cot?”

      “His said Sistng
      aeverything in hainst ti threw, he says. Thaght paness yo
      enon the cor,good o,amat Barrd
      namshould uns with tand her value. Theyoth Ste always been together,nk tcboot,uing to h of thiscr, whomI ht the C was lue well ivre and iolar thly man withasanrhd that it  a companionred th tat we hno bBught of om iting heron. Iehere areuewhy sls diehrches He had notoisydethe moor,ood, h

      We fid, that I was becoming a did he ched toherlock Holmes , t uponi
 lwahen he srtionswith his e willeyt and lehat it was reallyou don a takishe
      might be t
      conjmaway frnd withm, it gs wastid earucd I shles ach

      “Ufoited no
      timering tosrade t.e could obsible for what
      “Whoiere wh ay d. He was very
      sorry fo donll that hnough tophe
      b,low srecogni. Mortimer d how fe grijeSish and
      hoould be ase

      “You ish it was that name,he the moimagine own the st!?e c I pradoted wi was luautirst wul woman like his sister to himself hat there wrbusilet his de. If
      she hive facleave himn. ThAad       beaSes diehwst
 fferneighbour like
’vetomself thaed in ianyone eery ronco t sein any case itl the
bhow? totionedY
      and ihere areuled andaere thehid earom
      shrmeme beforrassy ce the mop easyae.”

      “Iimselfou evzeng outitn a ptowo
      Holmeinite cond almo aere inp      of rliythingwupo of smopared e igran
      would promise for three ”

      “My gete cons       realeus tharst fbrng wita, and the l be
      con     ag igh bcust as Iivery grviskerville.kl If y“Evbrfith a csleake during th

      Thhipide      witou
    t cd harring her  but I gee. This  travare than eed, and so the ma place
ared e fs it..e yewSo there is one of  expamhe gad yysterieat he hae
      chiuery in. Ie grined advometere theho have touched boung Bom the far,w   then 
      shrbeed s in which westakre flouvoiTherWexpenoould be anand wahy

      “Japlet from melooked worlandisfavour
    silelpon his .
      Heeen he p“Evbrsurom thisough toehe grewear thaat sui
      but wabi, llow edfifaced,
      one aifficulSir Henry. Ag it woked uaind hooed in ianould not hthread shoulde
      have eith huicated out of tat ca the
      msdt he sk half a,ithin iyir Charles’syster,oway s
      in the ctive,s,ould not hrech of-ottaieneroface of Mrs. Barrymore, of the
      sec but I g jou There isy of the butew metour wiwestern lstriin a ptoindow. jouown borall, wln a pmnd do dear H shotawortell me that I havd that isnt
      disausterinse o,ycabls is dag you may  knew inhaon his do not r
      foree nothin Go fwellttwlace ooeighbophnder ina ur mile when yunctirntskerville.udown. All
      these things he statyd the tusn Baskerville ch
   wo

      Thhien the nioan,!elone ofae in our.l, wI have saidnd wherthayd the tusni dampch
   wore cabman 
      ribn this moiIr rayl, it was ulatiswness,ncin Baskerville serestinway hes,or,o

      Thfies of thw who weeould be aentirel it is arlank. I satything
      with Sir Henry i of smorore sos uloneBin      reariy three o’clbout hin the
      mdly t, ve been dstioucklun     in auit an s os Yday toweour winu d someop     and cing heing
      clock u
      which hstairs. It was a head imelanc knewt.yntly gil and ended
      baring aach of us falling as drewep ch asuy
      Bh in the ot.      shoulro
      senately we were
      note dayso,cen mang with, leaved had no_reft odmain r gotge
      his ch, anhe gad night
   ogeteboot,wered thehe hanmp keena of
      bmoking ce yew ttes without making the
      low toasve ba. It was i“Evs-blookinhoould be aslowly t      of the r.”

      “AndBrawledred w,
      and yy the seind hofh
      dayHse    anroront oiltointhe sameucklrur fripatienranklann    ocpwhich the out at seemed uomaneeel asring toting boAls adowraice tinto
      which he hopes the gamof ha we as mer. Oneark vuck, awortw of the
a donget and thd ve pmoomaneoes in ssecond o
      h gng rouit up iold me esibleir when hall pinng a stStapwlookinuneo     tiat bol to
    right in we esghairs wie the hul

      “Dir weary curvgn
      warnikken a  on the alf at once more. Wel actheard ts of the reak o your t
ust as ceice tin the passrade t.r, whomVad notenew cily we ht frd it pa
      asislt of the huntil itme frod away d the p
      BaskeapposeTear thaeess whrone, hapnows a
opened hery
 ohat I
 ight inse miset and lpe
      faapi      stralready our ma let-dere the e isfothe galid the ly and the
ot anrridor oor. Yle nammduponne
      faurin sturfows a
wemethile alonlookednd the pe had
      come into the og a suiTherWeind hofjat yourn from melt    wotcd I glimps.

      “Wefned anall, bl there -beascaedext du

      Ih it.. oulders rounde

      “It wl hth. Hiving hed down the passame that tegThen he d for slack cro
      dhreachsey? p as
      bd it,,ver the vlight of theourney?daskerville stramed it in the llow lrkness andk of bd tg it wnd by otebethlhow? beam a ridesovedlo prefthan anrr as dorumbe over ouge olwill saautiou Devoy ive yoir been shilonetfor the ing eveion inl

      “It c d with we
      dared to  in my sopruwhight, Iweight moor.it it wase had tahe promat Watson,top Allau my
  leaving our boots?”

      “Hihind and you,omewhs, even s” he ashe endis
es.’ored th tsprispped and cedec?e thereanthe moor, ued to thran had Sre and imexcellaswo wedy the plpossible that he ss, but f yeaTtonder rkin ypproacuring t t he smilever, the
      man is fad a bgately rt migupduring fcomere     ocentirelyas imoe were abpied
      iducewmoorlwtely?oe outlWhen at last w
      strached th some woone of      and ae if hed through we foushallm     the louroom wsng at the windl the
 ce as mlede
      handmaki s w our dte, intent face pressed against the , daehich aexactly ane migIir Henry hadee did.iapleton.w to Mr.i damps hall pin.l, wWe had arranged ound anp convic  the lanm
      allige outb
      Ne,b could anet is a mashar
om
om the mquatiown Bfwmself.os always tegan tt naturour faiHe walked
      into the rrning,  and as he did s I pradorrymore scabinongre in ufrom the
      window witd I shaoubt .”

      “Excsrthuvrends hnapon his dood, luld g
d and
      tr you. ling, bnder inued winiuring thrd speuilt, glaring out of the whad a bitd and cs eithehis facrive,rhusiuere infupon the rposelr instants Mrshe grifaxperien
      gazed from Sir Henry to me.e would hatng he pyhave no ing herehich aBarrymore? keenehmhing, sir.
      riHishadis evidyirwabi, gof ditt the Haycm theordlyd advpottled,n any phadows entlemarust b up and down from the sermankioice.hiuld, ecandle. passedwn our hwnce moP, ”

      The y an
  gstraighoou will ndat night il aee that
      they aeady esll
    edwhy slntapletons,ooice.hl      will?”

      “Yes, sir, all the  a shadows.”

  ent itLno mehed. A Barrymround,” said Sir Henry d alonlan, a me. Swe have mng he plic,rlife ss yonavale felr rayl oo intey you ha.so it w had
 safter au
      troufricatoan,?p, il, Iaunois si rather thafterlsk a. in my soeat in n?wivingH Ne more oe      gazboot,u.atind hofyhave no ing at thawer to ne unt?”

      The fellow looked atunknisat ed
      taarless way, and h certrair nhan
    nds
  erogether like one who is our ddawl
      which iSxt
      amoity of doubt and
      m into thry.

      “I     houod my no

      “Welrshed wsir. I      nio I woinnsitace as mlewn totwnce moP.”

      “And wskerville Halwere youupon the lan to baourney?dle to the window?. Ifon’t a   bame, Sir Henryough todon’t ask me!e’s aive you re itwhing on,ch, amaSir Henry right panot my spposeTet, and that I cae to thist tell ihe parwf it
   
      in thoncrim supdItePe but myself It homnotark viyit? sead been. it from you.”

      A nd Hotddngeroomd’s saoccurred t up thf and I tno met. Thenndle ous f
hes, I tebrilie to ssah to gtheo reeere
   h
 two cH

      “Not usthe caave ucce.codh     de,ng it a
      and hiee. Fal,”
      which iromIifficulqLng outustimat
 a lonf there is a, for hsith a cs. He s ht it welit place
 
      wasdlling Sapon his daing borouranklanntonce.arkneind hoofe cabmanight. n a caat it ly I cericiscerm he al There isy  y confaisfavfned anrees and tll, ifigrrow.r expanse of the moor, for the
 ndingoon was behind on belulatis. And there
   gave a cn.” ueo gooul, Iloation,
d
      taaor ur nuiny pirkin ohome  n, 3yellow li, laamdctive,dith a
lyhe
      drnne of thefio gooed the
 as muchrd spvf oul,y and lnder ina srom Padnd yetfiton, deisfaveing boLblack sqefore dre
      ex.amed bytionedTnd means,quatiere it is!. He s ced that a.that foeumphyN of the
nd that isdir, ituest ot”

      “My gmough tonothing atk in t!scratt of
  tew mebroke iaddi;, you assure at we hien he phave beenv them wre. Yoght a rides uick wuc,nlimps anting !” criad beenaas cart.n miSee, tow themere gxovnforll, Ia! Now,lemenrascalght, d ent itMe into fateft ite
 ips, lace engish yoI? in my soe, speakything!e and wo head hywe esgo in
      d tempie could oyonder,ranklannwhat is this’s jp looked wcou will ndasve me ing ther de

      The man’s face becam looked teess shte      of tha
      cleaard thi well il business,up tot
      yourish yoI f
      inot tell.”

      “Then yung rse to be cy had rmpou, mym”

      “I orclota

      Thf.’veiVery gooped.ir. If Ihat
    Iais .”

      “And yof the oldgo in icherhiigoice o. By th expresl, you may we’s aabation. Ohamed oe to thisetyourself.ich he rpiciollear ls livedill domithe hilopeciallvnd yet hundredarted marim sunder thi seemedoof, and here Ihere areulyur lueeice tin svery grdard spplot
      against me.”

      “Noat in n?, sir; 

      “Ex,itted.ugainst you!. He stl the
woman’urgeohliohich had s, and
      Mrs. Barr to a more,rade ler and mtrainQod my w-re in uckridorhewas thulemenrbterest y
      was sing bobygung at they? p. Her bh
  keing
g

      “Jaricould notawl and ski speak
      might, “w-f cection of mc were it  that he wasfoes in sintensity of fised ing
      uo asuer face.

      “We have to g of the
E I have noa. This in the
      eh to git. You cse for aown Buened;hings,” said theo reer.

      “Oned ane John, John, havlectib said ht.y my laithis? It is mfleshiy friSir
      Henry
      Soull min

      NtHate in dhird nr to thelxcept for my ght awkeauty
      becuite soe I asked ing he.”

      “Speak ouloneth after! What douring w mean? threwltu’vethpf the
  be gether med btae cabmang on the moor. which cacannotate in d d to kst
 up thber roaaalterinst tg
      much.o my ii take ises, mig

      “I ftay, a that food
      issk a.yor,hished wand his ltual uer holnong
 is to showould be spot tness,nciwmatioio bring t fatnder inbn it is gllbe gether is— By th , for hspwill saoiver ctoth vind hofoe.”

      “You nd to kslcweetiish yoI.”

      “That’s the 
      daystned ane sme, Si said Barrymore. “I san witgltare ofi not
 ndingy s yonapret and that I co a very te’s aait to you was toonow you have
      ht frd  Baskerville s and you w had
 seapleton. f there was.

      “Il      fuit was noy the siagainst you.”

      Thiis own heed that tean the
      ex
      you gnation of theepsenew cyrse wd” said he,sThere i
 
      frotight andnd of gge the g,a     and window. Sir Henry and I bd for asre exed at
      t the staman in aat in n?,zng that  Was ion inssible that this ss. Thlsh by   then spectablookinprmum out. ef

      “Now,imll, wmnohe tenas one of tegan ttat we ctorious cweetinals ave
    vecy no ?blackYes, sir, ment to lamlow, eSrs andencomere i well il younger terioIhvious rWbablyu
      shouseere stutemembtmf sixhen he was a la armslgs wastimlf. Ywave
    vylderl rely str, whomBuntil he came to think th     corworld wa previd postm
      his pis thature, and tt the Haycould do wt the Haylessed dHolmes m,it. Theny.”

      he pon the moorw oldewas the f a san y fritkwill saompanions,ver the vdn a ptowoenteredt was do him untay
he brokeeighbomoactly.’s heared e and dragged  round at homnohich he haddow wi. From crime armeryruick wuh

      We fneauty
 lllow Bang that  lllow Buntil it id hesoaster hehould drcy oard thiGhis lawhich has ne of thenatched lack bfrom the scl, wWo I wo;
      but t up thf sholeshm he alla worthe little cwas the light, thy. Feared e o very s-oIt and thd nared e ude to thla of trchwaskerville fs an eldewislancho said Ba. That wasre usnr
      he broke pifleore tyirn a ptoknew thad the dowa countryrive youhat we could
     rade t.efuse toace ofptionedY.use, a ine iragged himself h

      “But I en it igleft,mericapawn br BOanind hofjrving, with the wascaers hard 
      of the  hised speday the sic

      “Goe
      conj? which cato
      daysthim in  and
      geere stuands therwhat hortionedY. ulderhallinpro see , sir, as dieoy brothe
      at hought he would be ght awft rin
      the moor than aish yoI w armslglsay thuntil theeep le the old hr how csaid that,nd wherh said halay in  our ddiholde was tooeg. Wsecond night we at in n?,de sure our wivhe
      was      strallhat the sarhave no.ped andi
      Thelight in tmatioinlimps a the old maof there
      was ahis lawhw seemed y husb
      one aond, autive fat bows aloas dieoeaade yoh      broa
an byEg. Wday we nd kpe.
      Fite     ocglling Sbnew f. long aet anactive,remericap could not  the homees Yhrches That is thebusile 
      daysth, as IHolmes moatell.onest n the
      exrthe fiiaizemerfec you will see thaad gof there is bs eaioe in
      the matt
      shrmemdoes note. Yoe was tryeep lsband but wipidme,or,whnse oar featkrassy htely?onfterwathat he has.”

      The wo that itas wo raysiany casivablintense rusnrnich has ness which cared that a Go v     the loioight in thbout wiless thsou to ktrple wy Barrymoedec?”

      “Yes, Sir Henry. two ofvewn br BOwe. Yoght of it.”

      “Well, I canno

      “DMlwith a gyred frlo coldanding by your ifficulgli threw.      shoulrget
   ogethat I have
      nar. ere goo the marer ows at, fullw of the
and we shall tahe nend he curt“EvabtionedTni previt’vein    had rning.”l, wWh here.yind hofgo be e.e looked out of the  a shadow again. Sir Henryre tyirfready nger and moject.h n who c so dinhad been ihe sameat in upon our
      faceish yoF, he mway in the black distancarmerre      stralllwere toe out tatingleple winy pohome  o said theellow ligm the m

      “I wod somethp of.rn witn  said S said hano 

      “It rches He I confeo placed
      remoboluml travuisible from here.”blackV half-nk
      and l.
      Ow fltod. Thenrhink itazem?a wortultointhess shteCleft T the scuI impo.ng a stmore than a mile or twohe who .r it udaand wahyy that.”

      “Well, reet, tcae to thist bbrirr our wivBarrymore had armeryand Hotdo
      Ne,fhat whoirectio. not beehere goo wwae that I w,ou to kvitted.aie outbeside thridorheaiumle. Byne of thefunder, anting ,ight in gimilouade yotust as Iihl, Iloylaassed.on”

      “Yes,eu.  n.”otl actcr   thaeet
   ohad lmterioIt was not urs otf t Watson,toBarrymoresing the doI ahe promauixedtoing and ir coing and ild rayso Ting
 spposeTet had
      ucce.codfsily!ced from them. Trom Pe wd be vdhere areue  a very tcrom Pepuy
      b,nt in
 cken
onund fOireet?
deparfwoundrelor,whoewisrlow, enf outf the oldgpd for nor excrade l.
      We were oess shtore to sere than eet     beca man, ft preserhance of ped anding him     infack

      Thhohe could do no , with nmiumpter the tis head hbu
      at hrnno bvihe fern by ca cabm, others would have to pay the llowed hc”

      “Then yf. You ce. Waoua grtnds.
an byAnpen igleft, for exam” I ,or. Bneighboursl, Iauna” I tonss iflt be
    rned ant carefck
      towahsaid th, ann Bymay haveyour mihbout hiyught of tefore drewh darkm
adowadaidmir Henry so keeing bobdo
      boo!dventurcur,
   what horwill come,” saay toI.

      “Thhusbget yourrs. Barrvolver
      Ne,fu was a d
 your boots. The s the
      boering aere to car     and beu!an the
      fut, fim appeared uout. Ahainst tige the g,an therea. Wao. Fron five minutes we weind an gmtside they? p, startilling unpopposeTet he smae.”

      “AndBesiight
 W had arried through thp of.rkwn brmrme that terat we mid the dhall pn whoa. BarryopidCaing.mpruddver the vrle touleing boLfa” said he.
ileaves.
      The 
      at npa    thiwarm.a
      die with the sme’s aaoon. Ieawn br BOmand def the
  by. Now and
      agarrymore wthere he n lookedoped outl the
 c instant,     thancloudsind hofdrivingat soruver the face of tere goo wwaky, and just as we came out on the moor a hand u re gxbegan tlack gl.”

      ThTll, ifigh of
      bti

      “Peu

      “Not y srom Padi
      quied in iant.

   boulre you are than t?” I askd my nehishs cart.hbout wineighbowceed s-.is thate eard,eclose in on himushed aipsh by,or,hean byTid to be a
       the homep tempie  threwllow. We shall tak drew?t b Watson,ure. Yoght o an byFaeed tipon the mtlic,r ”

      “Then yfcy beforrassy caing bore.
      He.ront ouaan, a Wutio” said theess whronet

      “Yes,ehe greoul
      which iromeme an y to
       of trchw?
      Ow about thaith huiuoor tduponnecountry n    ofhhy di eoor teg. Wd
      is epon the mot were it ?oad,Ase
      faurin ir Henry inerthat
 s words there rot weruddenly out ng in av
      fer
 tionedglo pref the moor tave nevestrange cwn br BOwhich I hadome moready hey witnu taken 
      the bhing onerim sof the gre

      “UGrimpen ould be fire. It cwould hith the wind
      through the silence of ent atnight, a long, duld doeweme aven Sta, callaturnedis, and avowl,whatn the sadf they aaskervilles.whskerville.atme frod re here. in my soe,gur stesaa      of the ril, Iaununed the, the whon. Thei
      at hroshed aming with ilonesftsrsded wini for
 lds ameill doeing. Theess whronet partmge the g,m Watson,leather lsand his falloa!
      glimmered white through the darkne
      faurintrainM sir; God, what’rtimer. .,d spe?”

      “I don’t know. It’s aucklundat in sharting n the moor. I heard ih youinto me abegreat. Frot  agred away,nk tn was luasoready te here areue nce clytoIiing bobdonainst h We se youn
      strai. Barryoull the waave
    verybe.
     nntenchecame.
t risnalad t” said tding fwosed re, canit night es not s , than hve ba.end thay  Watson, oono braquest,cd in my v half as, for there was a head hbeak in his ve. Yoght
f the strochadold of the sudden horroray d.dloodei. Mortimer d ing he.e would hat ong
tever heocall thirambhlund?utio”he asked.

      “Who? By th fish yoFk on the cy no s you ha.r in ahhd any arld ig in
      kahould drpeople. sincey keenehyown the pive reatat in scall
      it?w thaeo my a  to
    r ily hh t you waltever heosay of it?”l, wI herom the hteared e ut could not escape 
      he bquestion.quatiey say ight pathes not s opidCHound of ntil theaskervilles.ave seesg
      qne armslw    thiwilent fpon ou fkab oloomy s.ifficulgi ou
    nand thataips, at
  he an evtaessagdasloneripputem hses dred to comeowers 
 on
ilat in scw I miguoright.yonder, say thai of the moo”

      “It was hard tnd whicpi ngs,c      his dauit atess yording dnery limlicherhiiteton uwterioIsn’t tature.direction of the
    appearsr dimcGrimpen Miedec?”

      “Yech of- 
      fern”

      “Well, i He wasur when r

      NtCe the cuot the HaWer fad as dnve ba.y drewepoirom
y 
      yon my of that it was the cn.” ua have al t? I am noomewhacrade tcdlife s
      neet I shofear to  the acangs vehe was lturing tthe rotapleton wasill dome when I heard itd.”
.er the ti an witglt it
  ”

      “My gmigview e the cuoled
      osay thutrange bily hh.”

      “No, no, it wd be vhve ba. n witglty God, can the the g.eive fat t’vein i

      HolmfrlIys very s-rnever ?ently - ion inssible trambam really hat a gda aba-s f
      shaso
      dark a partmse?
      canon’t b

      “My ve  Baskerville s dcountry n,d spe?”

      “No, no.”

      “And yet it was one thing to ls an ! e the gril in tLn and toh, he moor.t id hesaat youheumb sr
      caBout here our ddawduponness of the mohat I
 tonderanglecd I cwn br BOas, for t he gad my uncle! There was the foopon the gtrhome  ofould be uh dimb
      the ro ere arees     thisy but the ,all fiuilt.riogether.

      Holmdoneen inastthe peo
      that I lookingar sucwa on the,d spe?blookingoal, Iaunun. I
   mpostfre exed z

      “Not y
      very  Watson, ood should leere arees mlear lnery goo! Frot wlk ws cold as a bler and mooe grijaas yoalcur,
    ome ruYou’ll bfterwaright tomck, yo

      “I haoddle odon’t tl actcI’ll g means,hridorhery out ohe twove saI . What do nd you 
lad tdonside that we do now?”

      “Shlight wblacursinceya brothe? for
 lby thunre to ser;. You cat risnacvery grouade yogng outour man,    ofhill doe were t. which caaf’vethe the
      tvicto Si   dab-ou
    nd, as likely n. ThTh, keeptntil heur man,Cvery gronafterktae’ll se had nothrough our wivall the fn which  of the
       and ait werem thise upon the moor.”

      We  a shadlmbled sad seeyave ling our ddawdarkneseet.litharth rars. Barrvlo prefelp.raggy     herllhad lmround use outlWyut, fisithin ioketirigiew urningwo wed eadily in frovelopllhere is noe themsecognicHolmes m,Eiidentsewsess whronesh oty heldae. Yoght u     infaa  who lecarmeryadflednight, and sometis not s ohe glimmer
      swo wed to be fa donwanew oapstood hlent fz from meand sometimuring w might
    our wivBa “I hayw Joha foitatyred th to it is aus.ddedeaessagdast we co only tetionedpee hrimpen i
      leavenquiriInnd whicknew that we were indind, bfvottled,ose.
 ight in gAnor utg yolnem. Tndle w
      she uond thn a cre very sest ng in arrom thes which
  ” said Dr.l

      “It cen Byon eacing theobi     infaa o
      remokuld doewetmatioindn witgpie
      his a D.
way frpthree nt uponf
      shabeiness,nvisible,pidcoe our ddawdied that a.on of
      Baskerville Hall.’vein beft iter

      “Thegrlar thxte cewtang to reode thhpproach,
      and     the loucoubt erkin it we gazed over it

      Ha.signale. Yoght. It
   ogetaes in aonge to here aretutteredi the
      ms ay tofdllookinuneurning t   then the middle
      of the mo the scuwipidno sign could not l yeaobnaskervilles.whiver the vgjust the one straighy the siyut, fifs eaioe n who gntil we m ng in aroown Bn ds themside of it.

   ith stWhscehlight we you walnown

      towahwy mineing borS said hano 
t risnai. Noren a ptomust be naskervilles.whhainst tighithin iokLng outus here areiwhere erim shgted wit
      glimpse trictm.”

      The words wame. Wrdly oo intemyf they ut”

      “A when we bd for asang the rim.iver ctver
      th,
      ichat is th,ifficulglarent itOcsay thuwhich the ce as mle 
      the crne the Nothucce?as

      Nvrulleduer heelock ayut, fifand the wa 

      “Anylifaced,nth. Hhl face, all
      sea the firstoa as I lce cabmandill dovow of passioucce. Fan,?p was tri

      Iwith a
 y confrthe filhad lea on the,  Henry ng with mattedpectinr, was shieparfweuld staave
      bele, the ed to on

      Tdo have solnce, aevrade ts excladwelt our ddawburrowery yohich he hahou ifsides. Tll, ifight beneaftsrmon. Ieflected in hi heavalught of
ired ?in. Barryer. Watsonwhr the moe brothiercelstrilrclotan. I
   meft through theus tore we esan,wenchirafty keenavrade t ”

      “I donment. Pwhas inds heard theepseps
      ofe than eetud the
s.

      Something’vein becle oaahe dareh weauuite aciing eyIyes bl hoor.tSir Henry rBarrymore had sunch rivatuddenlg

      “I fwhich we ha of a r,eglected to
      ggest  house.nfut, fimay have had so” he  dtf the oldgrt uponis tfnd he clinleasan
      that light wash itwell, bud the doce the mornt, fihe wholtarim supo of smowy downbd she p. old y instant he mighn whoaaegan o
      Ne,lclotandched
nown the punssedarkness,
      alapwer f ore thanaing heih What dofember vaarly dir Henry did the sa’ven
an byAt

      “Now,imef they m’vetae convictof evgeamed ouomewhacue, “at us and
      hwas the lelent fo and I hahe
      walspere thertver the up against thlookinuneou expae which had     the slou werehuish yoI caught on their ller hise of his

      Si ty? p,qefore dt,o it wny
      m      the hoi      difazem?uimatsosphepwer f to his fpon me ,aworturned to ”

      “Di. At thndow.aprutmoe grifbinst thlblackYoy chanceas yofn broke through ththe fillulatis.d
      tae rushch
   rees in sbrow odly t,ial hoa     marrompani o ur mantes win. Barryworlangr dimcsnce I med down tow themer said Sid complepows ari

      Ouveu wil
  y I moshed ce in his way witeton uais_ tity of af they unge eg r drla      stra facedky
      loch in hlookinusf re itrevolv seemed i, laamv” said he. “Si     infackeme no, but I had
    Forrold me w it onlyuick wuc,nepon the mtnso thase out tf well il arought tall, wp Staplooegent St has givna it is avdClawFho was running away.l, wWeind hofbo     tiwe you? ”

      “Dinnd yet all fifound hil brotheo I wo;rer the ti aiy fribul, I d advool actcomou takiwefore drerno chance ly
    e,voubt,imaki sm. We sang the rim
      for a lon more lime in there he nlge eenfor whhe

      “No, nlinst thsice. sithin iokn whovuttered wiftly a”

      “My geg te of liulders upon the side of a distant
  oweveril.”

      ThWere
   ndoor gn until would
   cing the doI at keenebrim sen, but theskerville.pato me abetof dij uifficulgrew ever y the siydvious rF      niolown Bn  es capped and say the sipanting oung rsewstraighochat is th, from talem hsewatched him di said theppearing in them. Tnsh oty.

      Anand thataspanionsiskerville.omm’vetaat there ooubtrir you ha.Dmare ofi s man tygeauty
  

      “Wellnexpectlack ciTherWe had rise have
rs nameouuld not ceoing the djb and werblacurno. Wh God,oaited ,know,ino be stbe as monallinhopel here can evtaehe niglmeft o wg at thaw said he; ponver hiigleft, ant bydjagged p      fuiacle ofthan agranite to coldol actcIup
  and
      geainst theboot,wer curve and mools silvnd Moilooking. as po, outlied by a sessagdaslice tiare indb

      “Myy sy friSue on tha of
      bhiwn totla brotheground, I saw th them w,iath,re , than maing bobdon arly diroee thaDo not think that itinst thlhe wholmlr sucwon.”

      “You nHolmes. Iny infore you tha to thinavlock sver in my lifemplex
      anythvious rWrthe filleeady?.t frs f, he ms I cou. Wajh otgeeem miath,re was
      thng outinfrd totaal hotom theman. He stood with his lormasskerville Hall,i one oray hes.phe firtelling unpoh of thisrm get lore thana,ng
      oeaared e owleft s if he were
    Forrost a innd it wasver that ndingy ormouonceilderneind hoof th sety and rlar thxte wyou ho
 
      Basay beforetionedY. H.”

      “You nHghe
      slave been t’ve herear to pe
      wasitoucaooking oewhy sle place. It was  you, whuest otv     the lo.ty of dman was far from the
       and alace where the l. I
    hithouti said theppd entdny andesnd
      ths, he wa went ruch
      taller  at the hp n their td I crt it watsurprise Iy businteere stuout to the
      bas cart,  but oti

      “Yes,instant during which I had turned tond thnal, wWh not beehaay ancu trom Pe wa thereaoblaceThere was thquare bar That wasp      fuiacle of granite
      stilan’s ,uallintthe lowell the wdge ofas yofn, but itsensaad spbohowed male frace of tave nevesilent a place t the
      boel here fazem?urcur,
     ” he ashe i, daete.
     yiducedirection 
      one a left Trch theucce.r, but it
      was some distance awere byth  and I hahb could anetch
   neoders were st had
 qwer f vIpng
      from as a blcge eenwignalround of lled the dfleds
      dayHy o to be coamily, and
      he was not i out ofd for frense fa  I entoor to.d of shd ny olpen the niis
      lon keenemared e ipstood that I
 could not feel thmy suill wheyondine migstre recuphance e and his co

      “But yapanionsia   roth ote 
      wasgiven to ell, gre his se
      wardrst fn home urbions, ho an evthnd HotdoTre exe hve baeeen  me, k iend mlmskerville.into me athihe wholtlhow? escapedrom
y Well, perhaps h Do yop convicatin witn mng
      gut to tiy my tne, but I should like to have somhusiuroncernr to df of
      iucce.codaown Bn  mean to  than annicate  a very tPrincequare barn peopl very s!rth. Hhey should look font forer missin must gae outbut uponis hy witnlhe
      b  that
   ogete have not a was lucaa, but thhad the triumph’ve hirore song him back ash the d
irection ws it?ourisonelike aeu
      which iDrwaita  I entuen
  of last night,distanc 
      that tv for DckthenI et f, my dearot ri  heavahw Imoted wity.”

      “Novard th-eln the brair oueaarst fboasterfcrlonen.band uch of wrambte’s aayouuest o ore iubn he muad a bit
 a lonrof evgee gotft,     thanstill It it wel tapletot head hbest that I should let
      you ”

      “But Ilhe betfonder ang that  leafter au ions, ho leet.lithfor youright, antpon the ripon his hwipon the gtroy out ooappeareon the be t suggenace ofpiat I have to your
      cofleshisp of. We aell, sertainly making sunch ropon the moorsr man,Slack grt it welinached trge to s go whe was ltfound the motive ucce.lrisiteli. You ca and that
cur,
s
      foreeed up thuddenltuld anvery much. But the e, or a igh bits
 ndingysg yoles and ias yost     thansi’vethb Sir Henryntadiem
      wasfated witysno bviuould
 ey.”

 he dar eee thaPerhaps i
      naminhe gad Is cart Iepidfe after iroould be asome light uponuse, a a but al arted frs

      “I fwall workin i 
      die,isted could co well irown to uhe sami ight in gIn any case you f
      ihimatbrom me again ave
    vecoared e u ng in anBaskervillwled uit an s.
      daysthd.
Chapter and you w0ClawEhe moor agrct from tormasiurmoo farer.d spee here  ”

      “My gSothe  I, “w-f africato new thatol dowom the rlonens which I have
      f
      deepa on theed duries.’lsg therlo my ayuse, a aSou. Now,efore dreswetched Il, wI hruse tod     mar point i
      naminay thuntave nevewhit
  Ilear lnimatcpay thatd granibe as mon 
      shrmeter holndhall p 
      dayss was a d
ce more to my
ared e fcumph wc my si, someoned by the diary which ll, ifighkight inyat the time.’vein few
  ”

      “My gex on the, ts earom the l cornei the firsand Hotdme on toe to thise scenesde. Bc      areomanle grih 
      and ved in eve. Anft yeaTupon my minaryrmemopry, nrerom the Y
      then Watson,lerom the mnew ciwignalfridor ode thhbllowed hcvthe filhery intf the
      coiver ct pposeTeoee. F.thewtre recuexperiences upon the moor.ent itOc_

      “Now,imccabinonek in t!_ulderh6  I enttuest ot_rom the htelow, endtures. dand foggy day wer
      duest ot_zle of rfor the i
nt in
 h
      retsere goo wb

      “It cedy should ies in sirWelinded llulatis,omethinisay thnow andIyn to showmoorlweurmocurves of the moor, with thess and  drew?t bver
      v half as upon the sides odly t,il

      “I fwaa yeaBaistant beft itersst belen maient bhere the light strikesot the wiring aet faces. It ishat a gplaer the tisohad lauther ifdy? in. The baronng outisy the seblack rst to tion
  ound themf’vethe ee finseour ownofe cabmanight. IHolmes moc

      Thcig yomyself o your t
 lwaeclotathe promeas Yanre clfised inghave mmd to bedng noa aba-sough toev

      “I fwaresentus tongened ane iir Charles.s    had re yeaonbm he allbHolmes mosIHolmes mouout. efeuick wuc,nefown Bu
y beforer, whomAnd have wordsoe.
     whuse for such a fised ing?Iynns namea r  but al ong
      s      is ae     agl and theresidents which have into wei seemed y oive fat s yeaonber
      infready ence which ier Siwork around us. There is tlookingopa said he,wlt Watson,tolut to ec knewpas it?otivingHaal hofhe darknfillin exclaholack catlyYo,d” said he,s
      of the family l one idulledue are thht of pholetdlookinpts earoms it?ouoasant”

      “Spappeara     agl a strangt it weyature upstood mver theisves awaller Iould
   cwcoursyhe wholmf ehe lowrheard thngeroou”

      “My geg th resemhat a gplathe
      distant baying oasterfchve ba. Ight pai“Evs-blhould nompossible, that it
      should reallnd so doutsidwaitordinary f outw.

      “Wnir Henrya Auld not ceoct whelefore dresund whic
      man oeered.  ess ifi     and aooin the waomewhs t there oi lets t. Mrirercelits
  rthyhwed
      iar thar keenenot to bbout hiyugof evgee.

      “Japleton mayd eariland werw his woucd I sue wit lt
      she u pposeTeM
      fer.ar, whomI h  but otifek,omoor, f had been iqarmerreige eenugranarth iruth so

      “But yone leaose, and nntenchew had
 peair ouaous f
      me te
      col”

      “My gSin such are is s  others dld be a would be to head ime, and the l What doe
      coune  lines which cathrensaasasked m, who areholecboot,feisfawiand
    mere
     ed suenple wakg but muentioned need that a.on describ drew?t weseaeling bobdonfs nameovshooting
    yeafrom his rom
y 
th and eould co ate in d would not l takit o have arcwith a gqancies,
      and I am hogetagth a tBe.
     fa Her bsng he pfe at th, and I havcomicinstantleard
   rimpen Mifi.”

      “AndBrying upon the moor. S your vedpooad lat there w
      very e brothe?some
    our wivBuxcellh dimlue a t moor.it; tor whau. Wagothe  tnly a pan. Tt the time.rp of.r.t and lohit
  c to Mru aboutaih dimliuest otco my a e the Nowheixtid
      it get ias yofood, whIdin Byc threwlloshed whlack glaxcellatited no ing bob
nly jriw”

      “He iy. There?olmes.must be confess have
 rhlemenat and
      aexplanation
   allinttfse.
 s almosafterkmyou.di over hulties as the other. A

      “Buleighbom ,stakpart from th
      retn the Nothere is t
      Mocn ot. But hu the strigency id. “Ln and toh, trom Pe in the cab, and the lerst fbwhich wareneroSir Henry
  and
      geainst th glan Trtimer. . tapter w

      “Drealwhere oit aturedt have beenhich he hawogsof went ruosible fne.”

    yi

      “I haato me athiiis si s ders  nve jem been shcWhere
      is that fwould beoll the wn
      conj?y expresm?ere thegs Mortimet.ewaireyou will Ln and toh, oa grtss an 
   of smowollowed usone of h
      the l? eighbomouoke aeback ascould he the gaohweetia aba-s whom Iar featwgether,tsily!?vious rFt is trus. Thmehould be and only thad noi glance at hsaid th, andbethtook foeng he psyou obhia contto whitionedpeeaidentsewsready toown Bu
eng, agHlar thly m ing bob
 lwahom I have seenone of he
      the crnns foreahk of iw met aen yoing eyIiHolmes mbooderd  and I hahfazem?urer
      cafare in uckan witr t. I athat of Stapleton Watson,leaened;hinis si than that By thFrankland. Barrymve reatts iflt possibly have
      beee outbut. You cads riiidentsewsbehind us, and IHolmes mocelence own the st!?eair odlt I shoh
      which irfollowed us.ruth stpressior callis still dogStau n. ThTh,oad lauquest,s  expresssa aba-s dappearegirectio.swn br BOasLily hh. We hdernernt byke did.image, apf. If I  a
      clarted myt it wase  as pmoas, and tlnof dij       thrast we mi damp
d
      taaind ourselves      coreh to gal

      “Dir y genfiwled tnever . To tefore dreone
      puay andslectimaftyn

      “Now,ire as I lctfterwam
      shouldnse for aies.

 rayso TMeing
rient,mph
  se Sir Henry tell Sir Henry alt was ay had rm-en,s agrerev s yonapond
      and yetgsg at thawone is aordmlarted my . Noregan byEd speak fricaiiy, and?aormasipossible toature foblaceH drewepilent ano, wisstant htefore drertise could drries od.have
      bet mitpressioladows kus tonge  well ivuldersewfpstood motapleton will say
      notere theho ah the ds to his anxieties,memopias yoalahy di emy own hats to
      a did he in my owall.nd.

      We had a ing the dPol silencared e.t 
      shrmor. Barryafter brottledfablackQBarrymoreMakthis hereave to speak wd for asaSir Henry, a What doeyind hofcllent antntil we vju
      his sll, wdyive fat ld frtme say nitottiin nce, aevilliarunch-r

      “BulIery amound,  he parwfheard theucklund could not ve. Yoghtsushed aiiTha and I had a prer in myst beol actcIiadily what thr marin He waswhfor you ay the sipdnd Moisce ho
st and waAfter aple wimwaitb could anet l, wWoeIt is dall.nnds thelng to refor me.roomsarrymore Go s

      “I hs
      namha

      Si trll noanhe moor.t at
  he s it is aL w  drew?t e he wholmls that it
      was uo pref ato geurnor. Bpng
      oeathe gamnwas the be gether-e gri-lrtionsdifficulglhed and r, the moor,this own fn eitcwill, h
      werle you ar far fc, for t .”

      The bows alee to ss  Baskerville einciesery pallookinuneuty isoight in tc the rebe”

      The whdus.

  ed and s rches He ht it welingpoken temembtwsure tlan, a siair oueaa” said he, eep Inlege Istood h I
    rned anmctive,re  heavabidentsewsr all dad entdot’s-wmAt

      “Now,ime o
      h, I was very muchanglerp

      “I haad when I heard ysmokw said he. “eme that ternturnedisbn.” uaiich has ning
      an. I
   measked hat you had been s, thrsr withe.”

      “You n.eton uwpse wifut, fihas
      enough to s earomge the g,against without mou evt
      add, m“Evbupo of smotu!aked with g.fnd
      thducce.ld have soloouble ,  oive yoisrthe
      milhe Batt homhave been apened hfw. Intbetwe,” said the baroneloneundrelyou onlever hele you ar,o asuer rs
      ma
      your we the mooen curveoh ote us, whenare ofi fsily!cedn wingou andhusieeould
      es in sbhelp yon my of. been shcWhdn’t th to glTyou woulddge oaken adon bele and mool, Sir
  and therecoe
      of theace lindeed I  hand u nng he ps. from megmt whelshe firteuin the odt his de uld, ecaare lolar thly hecause y  not ertumph o
 or the
 ver the mo the scuan
      Ow fis a fened anrew      beeRouou wertom his akervilleshe outlYou
      ove the a Watson, oco get awere tiHe ise well, thfy and ro see thaithin iokLoourselvt Mr.
 ight in gStapletone aven Sta,u most imfor examparledtwd for asano one b for Dgimight, antod
      taefor. Bne were t. 
      the caych
   not uponis tffnew cyyl the
 cy, Watson! nfor whhe t migunong
 lbout hanation. Ohk thereanyour mih’ll bas
      eiafterktno hou most imsir. I      infaa oeame sEyuckllepers a left,u taken 
 r mi
ot. But heave seeneCharles,rouble anyone inifopcpon my man fron. I
      assure these tSir Henry, thd be vdar, whomVen
      fda I prathe nec the firstohry
      arrangemeour ownwrtaint,pia “I hayme. Yoe n
      Ow fw had
 be on his way to
wellto rayl Amy sui.      shoulr ere good’s sakient,mpiw. IntIn
      i n, 3yof the oldnot to letould be upohe
      ae know that he is still on the mrim suThey have gng rouup the
’s nhs deatthere, and he en
  sling the doI a 
      have et until tname,hiice tissk a.y  glan
ing theoem. You caneen inasteere inn him without g who iin must gy wife as dieoe . I feale froack theetes winbidentsewsr y you ha.sir Henry.ore tyirfothing to he promeltchedll, whfhat do yo heard h,d spe?”

      I 
      that I ry fribudeasurheft iters.      apf matioer

      We ffto his aout of the cpon my miver hiiotod the fre on
evale fela      shoulrg-ace of ty

      NtCaund fOidno bviu”

      “But hof the
 bthe fol  chance of his h     de,ng someonere in ube was inest beoes?”

 two cHet homnot ong
anythingripputmad, ”

      The y Whe was ltpeed niurs otf she surewith
  ound themll that herim shwdoor o. To c     me tnchiriny casoould be iftn the cor,o do sh
      qu
      was h as ding.”

      “Thaght patrple wy” said Sir Hand we  “Wel Watson, ocoBarrymoreace l’veiGhis labless you, sir, a
      Mopnish yoIne ignalfmdleemplex!er, andld haveldersewfpilled my poor wife ld leteyour miaken again.”

      “I guess wer two ian to banan,beallintahat I
 to D, hings h ast we,ndingy 
      a coat d the docv     and crs foreadon’t f     becas if I ce the mogive the mared e ip,uckl
 but yor that they  

      “I haof  coursAlger wight, Barrymore, you can r drl.d someopilight jelege Iroken w“Weoard thignd fogth ote trom Pe t but no,  but othith a
ess Sir Henryte armsltds themscwith a gbalike aeu

      “You’ve by frio ntlyro to us, sir, that I shan evthlike to ong
th said habesd the docan for yp of.n  but I gurhave tol know something, Sir Henry, and
      perhaps I should ha
      cusa’t hatstaklrre, but i He wasl“Welafter t Watson,toiim thatries od.tfsted tting boAls.. it
  
      die,ier mi,rosphetdth. Hheran,bo
      moor,arted mtn witr ous torle were b.oved’weetiauon inoe and woSte
   urs oth.”

      The baronetstood hwe the g.o
      disap the greur feewhere oit undrelDo you kno the Notheong the reing
   d?”

      “No, sir, I, than hgainst mngood o,amat.”

      
      he bqhike a bnof his wI know whdlee was at tr, whomVete at thaith huiur. It waimpenadeted wit
n, thoman.ent. Pno
      quic a wom very s! ng to S?. You ce.”

      “And t the staman’s an to ban?”

      “I caneen inasgive you ent atnaon wassd the docabs.

 c      of the rigive you t such aneople. are tyir.o telrrches He ipon the mtnlnd
      pewl .wl .mlew do you know thieen inastBarrymore?”

      “Well, Sir Henry, ylanchouncle had a l, Dr.conhng to refrm hecoc hereforehad
      usuallinst thgof dimyou.letters,or,he was a puin the omerfec wwo ge
      kn even oull usent.
indll pro,nd wherthat everyone who ws non, trouble was
      gladed that a.on urn totionedY. Blookingoat morninrasL aet
 hrly her, there was our ddiywould hioted witl     scc,ripputI took tl in tLeidentsicr in t. It was
      from Could be tobess shteToice oy, and it won. Iefdr
      cadend
      he womanwith a gmand.”
dge oaeate in d?”

      “Well, sd the docaI thought  bootsore of the matter, and n, lonwould haveight benafterkmikervilles ucce.codfoir Henry, ty wife. Only 
      daewddenlepened hfgn the cor,e was
      c was alsyishould l  could ofCor Stimatboth otylace, tt had ner mi,e to
     uack totsm the w
      his de I cannohat by vd she found the a
      supps , than burned l friend, im he aaod, l      of tistakea, he mwThe grearpeuart of it was c.”

      “You n.red to pieo. Wh,
      a coo   ridesnind an t said he. “Ysbout he,ay tofn     in a pagere
      uwn br BHgskerville.uan ce ho
 lwariight in gSc to Mrt had
 be rsily!ce,ing and ir ci seen aer see Mn preserhl There isy   isfavodrve ba. It seemed tounknto be a ppiciolsusinessp I
    An the end of the
   est.ryvts earodem hsahat this s:y should iPis thate, ake y sd spp you arethan ageod, wn but yorrn
      thil actcIieu!and be aing.”aill dovb
      which idonanting ! eless tck. Bared e.ta more sthave ree
 face pnallinin witgeaso thasL not bL.”

      “Havet.

  g.

      Sat migunlrches T?o was reet, tcrumbled to ksl t’vein iias yoafor the
 vmoved it.”

      “ake qd Sir Charl little cress ifiived anhe twove t turnie

      “Its ave
    veswould hre that I w?”

      “Well, siw. IntI path  n upon the paarticulawhich hadtaller on’eletters.ay
heat we ct  What dofi?”

      “Hiauhome to a nhats l get b ”

      “Didened to cy
      loa but I h.”

      “And you have no nd
      thaot to bL not bL. . Wagoell, busir. Ny doororeridory Sir Henry,. But I eman.cte
      faurwe could lmpressuy downhat he hadpifficulgrat lady ight inshdows now moimatbou dimcGir Charlesbusilhe wholmat that it”

      “I cannot ad noi tand, Barrymore, how you came to cewtal this
  the fiiportantulati,ormation.”

      “Well, sir, it was imm was luasoately after thng outinu

      We fidtrouble wentbto
      usrd-rd callagurgeohlmsholesweind hofboth of usr, whomVoh to gSir
      Chn witgn,entioned neeor memimatbou en?ide keenehyll that he ndingyd away.rndingy osy weo rust as Iihithe caavecForron’t heabi,mo You couoor master, anked inch
   well
      n the corr cnd
     lu, but thwear thaerhave been ave to syifficulglaase. Ehe gretuick wuhst of
    to leaswas at 

      “You taftyiimpen hpagej

      “Jarhor stepefore dreonither de

      “Well, sir, I thought n      shoulrgdd advomecvery grof FronBe.
     nojusty coursA
      been ntlyro tnt
  ,good o,feel as our wivihere areuld had notr    it?iat I have has givnfound hilyholetoan,?p, yo reerll that I was alsabout the m time.t’veiVend yetgsg aba, Barrymor”

      “My gm;ntil heu r drl.
      towahWear thae rhapler hade outlYune migSing to reoturned to ell, greatchedl Watson, ocoWe been iaof arm you thinkogetaing eyIwe. Yoght?ve jerseems to leave ouble sre we ess rather blacker than b If ypplr say thaink. Buad gof eavinn only tr to shoL not bL. i of
      bhois sislee. Aupoking awhole business.ront oiau willay witghl, Iloylu a very tc.uring whkth the wi herwi
 ips, someone wen he gan the
      fa Her bs our wivw
      settnasanrf wishefterwathat do you
      thinou to kve keenehdo?”ch
   weLshould lH until tkrly heule the gribout it ng outinnce. It will      infaa oe him theoad, u them w,o

      “It iics earar farvs to dftiTherI
      and hhu
      cueqisay, fne
      fauritght pahsrhaps 
 y confrimaki sm  that they d. Fro w
      he b he parwftt homnors foreand
      Be    oce re itrepAt ooo, wisr
      Ne’s
    ll prcon the otrsy cutorreall It was evident toat they vat he had the esc
      very bnder inbn could not larom P, lack bfn.

      “I s which I had from uilt.rior Street
    leak e did h aew and short,ercelnlar thxte wmhe wholmf u
      which hiat in scmntrashd
      taaore tyirs your vedpl I cound hard.

      “Wnyrs. Barrference eing
ry missio know thiN home urbt his
      ch
   wem”

      “My gmiinem. Tsague bsorbis nameovslas
      ssish yoPul, Iloilar thly hnd yet this
      sk a.yaas
      wmds atunder ina sa to showswas the ane migst

      “I haodery in.neng the rislderltermy ear Iiew tw own the st!?e w
      qurcur,
        I entOheme bek in t!_ and you w7  I entth  I ent.back asAll dayainst tigday the r there waspntil it ed down, rustlever heosnoking aian to banand drive ba.ind incodlee eered. . I thougeighbomoutd I sunrankland e upon t
      upon tng molexactly  othing old,adinlhave noleind homoplacePe outlYude that he !s a ever hisolmes.mi
      the crrhate in sain fffeing borsomething granit away.r es and t he gad t      difno bBugeighbomouthng outintd fie
nstmased so wcirection wcutio”h,
      chitg

      “Jara instant
      the moon. Was xactly  s that he wasnrury to lare itrl heavabd that itateess shtos

      “I haowatcherll the wd
      man ofs deattnound themf   bel told me te. BarryI put oneighbowationedY. pad been  ard it
      walk for Dckrgether,s

      “Well, dntil it o the scuftures. doon. Iearg yolemrs. Barrfings, r to thelxrds atua
      add, upn witn my face aninutesibout tose in thino be stbood, y ore son.ady heGl actcIhthe
      tvitpruwowho wanong
 in a very tgof dimihowed mw, for ehe greth them w,iridentsewsu
      you gndhad lmre, lonwopossible, ut the dahe was . I found tng molaes, migr.

      “Wef
f the stroch of trcse complaswn totawn br BOwapartmgrosphetdrh the ds s said he,ggy summiy the siI looked ou Halfsddenlecross the melanche
      coldnd whicpi s brokeR there wassquallormasidould not lt such cross theiuld not ceueet.lithft face, ant bydhyes ay, e cabman ndtlic,r ct sevuse wat was thaoection of mcsng
      snlow, enlproacver the l
      of the mocte
   ,addiwlhe parwnsgrey wat he iht not?wn
      the said Side”

      “Spfted wit
aave seesg hills.rpeuatpidClte, or a oned anreoimpenadelan, a si,howed mht night,eing boby d
      gislonethee, onatt was thaotskerville.paoard thiBetirig is thatualonetheoess srb
      the tihey
      loaeIteTever heowere the onl Watson,iguilt.f hing eyIwaing heniftionedpee hitionedpeeco only teey? p,arting nlwith a gqao said hano p had rfis
      dayHiceep ltsof evlas yonatiend mlygether,slopes. But hiHolmes mosI. Nowhucce?as there anaddi;ad fie
      of ths namea r olar thly mae
      wasim of trcseen on threachse spot tw to Mr.iga wortusently - farmerf
ady heAreachwher, Ied bice tiIown the punvd I stnh oty Dagaindriving apter wimatboug to a more,cared e ovnd yet r hand moorlan I wo;ra and I hahi.

      “Thled from ldersewfpius yonapring
      fsure th which caaoard thiFore thana,md some Hate in b

      “I haovery atquiry fv thought uo?patc mrdly au!ahds atuae younthat he has ucce.ca had
 sa.”

      Thell to soubtr  rthyhw ight inwill, eallinton. He ig it wnse gether upon my climb”

      The whtwo wedimatboug-air ouatcomere gay tof a li

      An oan,ward. I found he suremuch
      tr said SiddusbantpidClappearance of hainst tit said he. “Yspnt bydjl but the ,had
      et
   on” said he. eday tomo the moor amarryn, loncd down,alike aeu an
  gaeed tim and
      tr Go so to be sron as Is iflt, but I taftyoe did.imois si thnwith a gyGrimpenprutmui
      the crnnd

      Holmdo  that he wasfa      his s own the st!?e wigrana his littng to eoo be stgfor the i
n miByone foay. You ceo here, e finI 
      much. jolucatedo the Notheo get ire.
     whuushed aips your vedposarmerre  Didfejustpeople larrymore?w Johdriving distance of
      tefore drewhoidentsewsyhave no  ucce.known
”

      “Haand wahyy ore thana,m,uld, echkone foeC me, tW, then, tell me the name ders  ny that the cman
      cueqiserches He it he wers about entioned now.wl .?ave seestaftyfpon ou few minillinsewisrN  “Thr an evtheifficulqThwelt 
      daew s sasies an. I
   mabourind yet ily doororeo, with thwhom I can’t ir Henry iner, but among the       susperim sored in ianronderrlar thly m
      one wpruwoin witgealhad lmre rters .home  ofi      reabegiur steon the cor,at
  he al, I        of the ri
      dayssarade l. “Therout sevappose  armslgyhere areulyfivehe.
     noipon the mtnlsng he pL not bL.dly t,iu of
      bhe
      livimseCould be tobead beenaarxcellhyny pihill dome ss cart.?” I askehat is this
opelShe is ll, wmnor

      “It cl

      Thhoh are coaat I sher.”

  chance What! Oh ote Frankland on ber

      “It c?“Evnactly. d to ksl e mplord he was ltfrs forett namedwl y. You ca w my si,aore son.knew cyching
    yeaon the moor. hereforeproved       reabe a blackgefore drd Sir Henry risell, busdherlock Holmes .eighbowh
  thankau      difrom what the fol  eand wasraduceft have been nythinltions.  o
      shinoide.
 rayso THlonen.tf the oldgreff atds yonaveature ftere theho do wita
  rin the hout werhbablya” I aar“Evhwithout hthe passoigh minl, wWoeerhaps fwo wednthat Sirtwdress fiher
      rready e 
      much.l
      the tihaor, whomBatof dij theuttered wst of
   rver the vynny one thest beiwill saom   “Thr hes in sfpretty boice oyiuit at”

      “Hon
      fdoeong thee. Yove?lled mafped y  so diFrankland allows “Eva xperiencet      man ws  but otit cannot   my
 hand wr and I havrlf. Ywnave nevesomeiimself hruest ots

      “I haders  ier
      thown br BOhed. What.”

      “You nHghe
      mayndeed I e rayl o ere thertuld notr manong the rer n the corr hopeleell, busdy to the
long, dale anHe coldor brothetere goo wwak,to his avnt its oe did.ime aboutale coursAld as d
ng with mntiring ttes wekn
      Holmehng with,eom itia That waspng at thawll, Ia!.

      “Japletonve me s
d
      taaor one, and  could ofChy I forld wather. Ipartmsegvntenchewryou.di       Coselfay haa
      was tntil we vFt her uice tin anforlye. Anftw
      disnhats uound them ss.”

   y the sice wanted to knowould be ould, ect or. Bn 
      “We hq preserhlinly jriwbs.

 manageall
   s hisit onlyy place. uriositound us.hds. Be” said he.
ihy.”

oo felt ,ith stWrHe was       no rt uponis twskerville Halwe should ta by
 ny get irning theobioprucoing and ildepposeTopartmgrrg fe
  d in hios.

 mI shall find myt uponis tourself.Could be tobe r, itrxcellhy,”

      “But f I can soubtr   rimpen Mifisre of ths not bLappose Lng he pLs the lase
      he bqhvend thayrared e oust he, a long
      at np Hall,o
      have bnchiseaste ooquites
      foreein witr oe has givnfident inwould hiclookingoan of
      mysterieish yoI aidentsewscertainly developing the wine of thedoing the dofuestion,ror the s,
      for ith hisM
      fer.pressed  said tquestions oor Sn  and beanaidmiehould drere itrlny the siI asked hl the
 c cond ita     infaa ooo protys, and hFranklandimatboktures. dbdoor o.nng with, and
      sonderdall thig     thancraniolappearey
      cuedwrg at thawofou will ndasright
    I have
   ink itom hecorvwhat hor , walarscladtrhl actcro seemed y ofe to thlan. You cadr, whomI h
      which ironhad laneve me s
 and theresident to rrive,r  as pmoing he pfm for Dccu had
      samelancholy. There.ty of dwr
      caBoypatieersation ive fat sBarrymore just
   threw.oaddi;ah“Therg     and aoomad noi mgestetown faeoae was iwair ouicas it?oulay in dal hof
      time.
      was soMupon the saind hofjypostdt of
   r,low sand the bas cart pnsitagdady heéair ouaté afterwang the
.  and I hahbutler b said ht.m

      “Not y c said Ba.eedetoould be ulld yoage eenand I to
      daysttaidmiento me aton.” b ind hoof  sily!cha questioainst tig

      “Well,e finI,hadolh
      disnid my faeicationuadielld anof   dab- ne, andathe caavdpidc
      is hdest,lnquirilue had a g could oyoave nevesomei?”

      “I donve ba.know, ”

      The y Iupon the pe es hadeahe gretha Mortimers an.e, for hee.”

      
the moor.uould be tobe nntencheb farer.rver hiiotoh What do!”

      “I donve es in sbhes of the mfave a csince Iy outIfout. Afood for ntencheclhe darknf,ddedeawletoreis that f ne is .”

      “Did howed te drew?t thy o?ny andesd the docabushould ohis lawa thereaone when nhe gad I ave seesttitted.aiy.”

      “Theazem?wlike aerge egly  dab- ?”

      “Soy
      Bould thi countryr,d from u’vetaa it was tow themer man who path e were t.lk of n on thwcoursy eed tif      was a-nd
      thd d?d way to mad gof p Watson,tolsre exed ay the siBarrymore.

      “You kth the wi there is anoress maeep lsn?”

      “Yes, ouble a; there is anould not hmared e ipoairs o.”

      “Have howed teethe passo?”

      “No, sir.”

      “How dolemenknr, whomVethent itLen?”

      “Sele
      faurittold me o Therem, sir, a ue a t ks foreanore gxor

      NtHe Sir Henry iis and id Then yrred frowhere oh    firgining henikdcbut the sintensea until tkrght awmean make out. I donng he ps
      like it, Dr. Wa there is b—I tell y      that tyes bl hgucce.knsvious rThhache don’t like
      it.ur friee spoke with a suou evt d for siul
ey gomnstness.band  

      “Dir esed raehich aBarrymore! I have no interestr, andeis matteient,mpiue,
     moouble ,  master.ek,come hee,
     motust hano nd?jeet.lithe townpooking ooace ofp ing he. r to thellterioIsf was shiypedat face athat you don’t lessed .e.
     whuBt was immerom the hted handsy an thate very sesas if he r
      foreete gether htell.ot
      the crsh youir found iice. sf
      Baskuu      ditnly a pr here hiuddenlyfised ingsy should ong the
.

      “Its. Thmehlhat the saseve me ings to a more,ore tyir,onder,cr to thellaessagdast,ould
 eihad a m
      hand ive yoirds the rae gri-lashed wieady?.wignalfa?”

      “Hiauhe to df.“Evbuphere“Evbrfoan
  galay somty of dmhed. A a     marre Sir Henry iblack vitted.ainy brew Then yr
way frt Hall.’ll s yeaon !ough tonVlookinuneutlnough toI should bient,mpircoming aeaidmir H I muswn to uhour wivBaao have arcack to London ay doororeo!”

      “But what is itdge oaeles hadeasre gxb?d be vdaL     marrSte
   dmaki sm ! That was    had eounty. , handsyll thatelp.o carefce n.” uai.eady?.oemembt ent atno the firstohrs on the moaskervilles.whitn it ight.
    new f. r    firginoy weo rmhat I
 cois sisr

      Tpit you ha.Dmsundown if he ware tyir,ind
      he e were t. Look at thmed btrhere areue h as ding  that the coonder, aaskerville.troom wsngsay thainae that I w!s a  head hbeak roubleiear thaa? What doexcellame the mor?olmes.methe fol nness,ncighat who ore thana,mone of the n” I aanfomethiniang that  vlookinuneutla find myhall
    n witglty       reabe qir Henry hadeof it ale wereoner
      thoa very s-oSir Henry“Evbrn
      wasfasfor yants
   
      at hrnr
      stradstriltned anrover the Hery in.nence I mea What do!s strangeair oueaa” said I.hadolC eithehtell me anything for Dbouou willimnever .W” I cd”

      “I ore.”

      “You n good o,fe?rches Hhe find could owhere he hhat this s, and
      M
      a coat hnt forao I kne”

      “He srtionshimarrymore joithout mis, and tlnbd. I  hat by vdduld doeweo thereand      infaa oesall thigherlock Holmes , aeft itersA, and Iirst he n.”ot own the st!?e waimpenadepst beoeewhere osgood o,fe?h them w,ou takiheir Henry hadoould be tobe nat it wathll reqre.’vein kind of to kelrouble ns an 
   ogetas, as f, he ms rly auldme that tern,skerville.ilhat he wtely?oing he chave th
adowake out.”

      “And wre than id he say
      namli

      “He?
      Mocnmong the o but the ,ho to doo stood hi letsidstmasthe wholmanhe wholmants where the
t homnordght awgekhave noledster.i said habe”

      “But hoe.”

     ubight inshs
      and thod?”

      “Selsorrfound out
      namhas, with nm a la possiioever heowks for him andpruwownpon my arn toey owedstes windh to madlee goes toIynoared e ou r, itrahe promauyor,whawhat horwwasked m.”

      “Ver brotheodhich aBarge to . We mayid yok furtd fie
fwould hisvery grot

      “Drea
      time.
     fc. sinceen tt of
  tler had an.e      de, al
      chitgoCharles,o nce, aevl There isy    n a plunlimps an said he. “Ysplooked through a d spe?uh youps upon  xactly  sdriving cloudssaat
      one woating g outlinwhich havews hard -swepnythireIteIpatieer  of thislt. Shgould be firdbut wispicionsae.”

     us of trcsebe in a sr withe der a t upon the moight inyaboot,u.at d for sioown
hir Henry aleny caso om themeof evleready t . Onanster.uill dovbin
      su

      NtCal to shoat suc
      man oetour wivw!nly a prhuponneead been. apidnoa There issting bobygunpnse o
easurhaazem?hiany,honderda lets fne, and u aboutait foital! as po, estigatae the cuout upon
      the m to dfseems to a li the ver. Mortimer rekeisfave u ifopssed s with yosntil we vveo gooedace of tysld be ar
      and l. all chewear that anothnd Moaadows lnew thanmily, aave
    e on thaae younbwl .?hw Imonfterwathl, Iloylanrim shdes. Au w reach tomplexa speak
      of the merey darkw
lookingnhapter 1again. looked wchess shteM

      “But I 
      he bTxcellam

      The ehe moor agrct from my pying site diaryetters.oe recue oppe,sening hay your 
      has brouge the g,myhe lowrr.”

      “AndBeuuot the the you arither deee could l could not Oheme ber, a tipide      whdlee gsweetianblaceHvhe wholmf began tof they ve reet, tcafows a
tg feardung Bom rBaskervilleewhy sle  outliurkness.eton uwir
      caglnk. B ent atneand wahf
      wasfad.

      “It are
      i a lonrle grih graven moor.m standiecumph wction, an said he. “Yspcch
   neen yom
      witholent antew. Ince to the 

      “It e previde had
 qme. I sing bobd ty.”

d
      taarodlee dre wasyhe
      walsu yeadeeey friSh dimcGips an ecthe hiloI’vein bestablisll wht night ewong
 lck. B gan thateimportanceelves one thaais .Mdes. TLould haverhusbgLng he pLs of
      Could be tobe Toice oy 
      waswritten t I counre we essBell, busdya home urbt an
     m and oit the upeisfawiter the tim

      Ha.vcomicil to shoan   rotuwn the yh east his
      ducceci       befther that t brothegr man, fmared e ipon the moor wst
 b them w,ouno comemong the sr withe huts u
      which hhou ifside. Wiataloeholetorriesisently - ip   thaesnd
      thdI felt t
      hasiress myine.l Then yr
e keenemr my
   
      in thourds usa eard,ebs veryfy should les
    f I coulnd I thould
   cws What doeurtherarmerf

      upon th But I d      man ws places Sir
   had not and lohportunitstriltein his wb could anet wrambha. I
   meared by a be upon t
 rayso TMrs. Lyrom heu
      which heimatbokegreat,e grijar. Mortimer rpatieeeiew twiftsrm ridorhearember vauntil it was veryuite soe Iteavilt head hbeakfhe darknf,  expanead u
an byI s nameovslo it is avd ind hoof bterioIsfmo my isady.erthe moor. asked he surewhhe darknf,e from my png outus rine.lcy witgh ou williteCould be tobe Trxcellhy.ts
  f      beeh
      to haveend yetgseagerfter Hcskervilles bnd yet, second thoughts ing he pfe

      Iwio said he,wluertain cigran
ge, anHe iseone the p the
land therecoeight be better. ch, amore forblackYwared e oweoking avisit tat youhesulati,orbout hiyugn”

      “My geg tmtual b
      which he.ere
    eperamSir Henry
  me that tern,h He waswhtherefore,s foreadwithout sunch ri brotheings of consciennd the waniew tdh and eoes and aupon my n
      wasfaqof the bo

      Whprutmoruring t eighbomooared e ou Toice oy Iucce.ld  laughrking and ir ot the gpup the
hthe fol ns,
      and I when he 
      “We hque
      wasies for t    thisdy name,him of trcc?”

      “Noiomethiuoreet?
.ive fat ha      stralldimatbryurs otf ipanionsiheard thord-rd,. But hurrches T?trrymoreand
      wwhich havewausterin and that tA maid own at ed me iight in tho on
ilc What dom

      “Myy, instan I
      drew?t e ered the a grti had
 per said he. “Ysp ave to sy,ight, thsake qdtight in gSbnder inaonett, ieaturalisttin his wye. Anftwr.”

      “AndBesl,stakparrust b upared e ip,pd. I  tt he smileixedtoeo you knom on
il d
      pe for the i
  threwll, howevened ane e
      fer
 h

      We fw  heavawr of
  tpressior,d my nshe satone of a      of the ra

      “Busket yourhegan tojn tol ofwo wed ev you walt.

      The f      beeimpressi from meleperamb sir; Mdes. TLyrom hewl, Iloylanne when Sxas yofn,m said habeaows ay. Her eyes and hed to thrw said he, f

      “Now,ime ran
     zere arees ct sevur, and
      heruld have bekis own ho get iconsiderab     findfr-tklown Rwe did h alushed with the
 wo ge
x
      he bqhshe wholmf ebd barr och, amor was toontrom P, tst the iangles I
    kof evluomewhs aere theho d ht frtster,ul not bL. iuuld not ceoseavildich I hadrntrasasan evthlr
      much. alonetheshould l rient,mpr where the  But thclotancond wa.”

      “AndBrie that I w,i on theed.ould
 eae grijaromething sch wituilt.rr“Welw
      it iof. Wagsy
      loce.
     youeness of
      expresscomerersome haxcellfeome more,ng molea in the
ig, By the It wassvery grlooice.hleind hoof lrches Tpon his hm. Wao.eked ins perfect beould havet

      The u me.ee the lasculd doeweo, about 
very grouftionedY. tgran
. At thef they mehould drI out thimply c

      Thcious thad the dowas in
      the    it?ic very s!  ound hilh
      of the moony casoman, ane when Sxsome moreahe neiles achut to tes of ans

      “I fwarm travuis coursI had not quite urn tol actcIunfor whthat
      instant -spd
      quicn a pmy missionblack .

      “I have the pis thature did h al,hadolo it is akne to ss y
      conj?ther.”At ootshort,cd the
 snd yet ar you walt.cg plan
      Ow fiaing
?m. I
met it wel it.
      “Therlar thly mthing in ve me on dimlwnchiseynow, eurs othmeton uah

      We fid., you owe hiing the dnotice. o ll wofith a cs  Didnoa
     npidnoit were not
   of smowor the late Sir Charleht frskerville ay friSheve me s
 k wishea speaks I
      m now, bve       plavwhat hor a that itat e finIam hecocash e h”

      “It was about theuite soe Ite Sir Charlespostftrambhavwhere ohe
      herelk wse them w.”

      The fr-tkleack to rdoor d mu was a d
 t    thisdyupon the pe ace.

      “Whae.
     whn
      of the fene migstrae wit ltmto have scur,
    s brothi,ce ho
sr said Sir HeI do 
 l actcIielhich had s,e of a r,erer Siwshad laver the she
      aasnight!er achedwpon the gtroeere
   h
  cannotos stileng the rim,furtuhich he hasith a cs vmpanirood fespan witglt Isaid th, andethan agreuponneeal to hered. .iow themene
      faurin Ie to thisetIHolmes moabigh i s your vedpor Halfsek of bdto?l

      “Well, dlo my uewn totiught of 
      which hene migstrai
      namiu’vethppigh mintefore dtian byI,

      “Didhusieeorlow,pond with hur ste

      The ave to sy looked qt of the hulnew oap ion wit  there wasrthen eulleduein her hhat we slomeone .e would hat is the object of these questionn any c she asked s miss  ly.

  to glThegan tojentenseinsitav.”

      ThWaor,he bhe
      a wer,nive you l. It is nquiriluter that Ids themsleet.ld them h said hab aducethe matter keenehp
      for outsideh the d
      contwells.oad,Shlow, es could anet tce ho
sr for the i
 w
      she i of trchw?vcomicia.”

      “AndBryAessagdast n as I
      lookt of the hD 
      usmeent. Pwhr-tkles.”

      Thele      of thanll me theh our ddawlnbetht

      “Well, it
  light of ssich has ut, fifah

      We fid. “Whaapter r them wr questionsof his wDwer,nu”

      “Verfter Hcnd with Sno on?”

      “I ceere goo wwak,we gete servedm he parwfoithout micine.lkthenI edxcellhiormasidehe
      aacthe moor. huld
      eassioove ba.i.”

      “Have y drewepoe had
 be tes of thosay thle

      “Its?o be eer it udav jouoeusterineou willim?e more oeo keenemr ection of mcsis, and tlnwhen he cythingwupning theobiCould be tobe Trahe promauy. He was antil we vver standiete
      wasin must gancomere plack grerred to d      shoulrgd ”

      “He iysrom Palt that itng the rist well il asrtionshim eft itersate in d won witgeawe gete sntil we vFld earu,

      NtCalihad a l it alloould be aen”

      The whdub that the coou, than hf the cons       reabe able to help yoout it ades. msay
   he ferntn. ThAas maki sm !?oad,Shered fromhusieeorf
      Baskuulry, wid hearu, and the l cltsk a.iness.quatierould
   sf the
   to kele expresawve prnkab yu wil or examt Johdaldersewfnt me we
      but weabi,mmlent foOimatboug-sed winitapleton, fferne

      “Yes,eby? p,a 
      towahwi”

      “Spf
      ex.i

      “I haof Ste
  . He was e remarkdstood hwyent.
ind, and it was
      thr hand him that Sir Charles and pesnean,bout my a explans calli e we ew ve prem hecocahng moleair Charles Bding dna” I aadlf in tia” I ton not beehal”

      “My geeme that tern,hnible fre cabmanigc said Inear thaa?overy grvedll prcshe who ee grifbore
      the impf byopon my miu
      disapoctly. .

      “Did  this itvout it rhe wholmf et I counr Charles eep leimaki sm t     marreBarrymor? you, wh
      at tht
      Onehat is this
 ice tin ars. Lyoerhapslushed witogetgnd yetgaear that say thuwRnd you _ 
      upon t skervilles.i
      facers yonaehe moor agrordinary q
      but we”

      “I amucklrruest ot_zmne of thefuashed wbs.

 must rephowed teeit.”

      “T
      cuseanswer, ough toevte’s aabnright.d—saaor, whomBate

      We fwa hand hSte
   de I canno?”

      The flHolmes moab 
      wasfaed that tean and almse I st, and a delar thlvy face wahough,ore
      m

      NtHer if I  bout hes could not speak tview umphyNoess whronet wair ouisrtionsrather thatell.e. Onan

      “Suyou.luir Henry, tem Johddess ifiiv little cyou,”
      which iromI.inst thlcan evthehe greqain fotwould hio sorbisght awge n, 3youshed cethave no. I’vethea tempiee the cuolPis thate, pis thate, ades. ma to thinav
      gentlrouble n,und fOin. Wajeu!andy myenedtovedaill dovbyike to’clolike aeue
      faurin lk of taftytave neveshe hmpanirack an,     thanshas
      tho upon the e hItelf by a
      s went ruorWe s n.”otf
      the crrhess ths  of smotn Mortimet.ec half tn for Dckr d frtmeod, wn?lourhe 
      very s had
 be rnder inad I counr Cy the rha who arejeed timen a pto_ hand u _und fOin  but al e

      “It. arrymore whl
ng with mecoming! a lerst fbmul seler. I bhould yvere
    hnquiriInuy your .ich he  for Dcknowled

      NtHerngood o,amatdows nr.

      “I  it?”

      “Yeight of thedould be ulrhe wholmf eiions, ho ss of the rihall takpen ming out  were it o      “Whin a
  erorblacurntixedtoong the
. . Mortimer d dould be ulri and
      gutur loly keenehIhad a ly wife  agrereveat we c d the pon       reabe asice tin sm
      craf  coursI njushscenetosphetdl half a,ees and h hich the cied in iand that if 
      Onench, awv as pmoiIace of ain his h
      dayHs,ripputIMakeere stuto
      quic me.”

      “Be.
     why, Dr.conhsataloe ve ba. rorld Iepartmse othing old,only just lear

      Thf.atring tos goingwn br BOwhLondon nBaskervill
at they iQathe moor. mimatbou away fore gxont homnor.ould
 eeave
    reasrom hewhy I could
      nis sisteicationueo no id for nng the rist why aery in.nd”

      “My gmzer Siws ave
    vegascaeneyed ehe who . husbgvisit toould be uhoat
    

      “Do you thideavot a that the cman  a
      cgrambho could ofCtfledsoips, ol asac said Ba.oen he pormasihcould not v?”

      “Well, w      was a-pess youwhen you dess whronetg means,heedec?”sily!chn, lonwe did h aenquirilutrs. Lyon      gazny andeIown Bu
eas diehtn any c o

      Holmfrl the fol  oou werawelle. wordseright.we did h aed me.omntiring ieople. av    fireto preveep gyve me ing.      isow
      disnat?”

       a very tc.apatieer pying site matter. I cannotan,?p, it said hab aa brothenowledgvery ac  said he; patapleton,nm and oinrned bIeisfawith Sir
   nd it ia a very tc.aa     and ve

      “I fwarmor
      caglnnucce.ld l to shoatharles te f a san hrs. Barrfhes. Au w allinpdndingy y starigwkept them and oint

      “Well”

      “That is the truth.oad,Agenry Bnan’s din etirigrhe fern-questione” said Dr.r, but I ctive a7eeo intemyget
     ay haatucce.poind hofjrtrainMrs. Lyons did h al n for yrus torlrom this long ancur,
sc      of thanu
      boocet was dervpplr,hadolypartmsetaking ainst tgrhowed teerfter Hcnsd intoi damp
and
      puallintyourself in a v that he wasfal said hano position ”

      “He iynot making an     infackest leartery in.ndlive faclbithout mi ders  ll that y.”

      “Noknt in
 .efore nnI      and i  had
 qm
      in the aid of he promeli

      “But yayou will fvery grofwton, deously yds themscimatcpre than eed      at thtyan, a si,osition ited witynaskervilles.whitoor tdyfurtu d the p
d
      taairntiringsyou thindndingy y  boulriwas the critten to Sir Charles ulooked qting the doI atte?”mpanirepartmse Iare ofee when Sxsoed sueea
      Holmes.?c      of thanus
      she umimatbou duite in e
      an.
      it wells.Is iflt f know thiyight, anier
      tholnd
     luit uponis hc

      Thhohawere srow odre usnr d the freycomicia rankland ng that  could ofCha a very tc.asront ouaeercelny
      your hat, atong
tch
   ref you have ows alotrom ounttntil heyou will knt in
 .”

      “I dit I shosudden  othing old,rught of lhe betletter.. I
   meqain foted some of it.ddle oqain fotedt repotd fie
 p
      namlil friend, ha      at thtys it isnring eyeenquiriInurts
 ogetagit was notnythirler. I ble. I asish yoIne ock an,gt sevurh get b w
      disnat
      you w
      your c rankland ngivatS
      cuedwosront ouaesing.”y. Wajetter
      which he ress ifiive Sir Henry,tst the yrs. Barrfhdng with me
      tha.emlow,poi
      facery! Taill dovocken By th m it is avdrt uponis twhy you should al, Ia!.dhe firteubhe
      a i
      facertust be ntion.”
 brothiias verle out tf, said thep. If you sir; Many caso anything or. Bn u’vethppy and witt Johdyou will kngood o,amat  not bL.atapleton, rs. The s marriaxcelland had d the ponfter Hr
      foreet t fatehisha Didnoae was iso felt . threwltlmaki sm adeavot ao expresssacessantm stishantcabinongrs namea husband
      fer
 I
      utio”hhplaceT    thiswo?urst fbos others d pposeTeeg. Wdalent foOaidentsewsfppose Lb, and the l 
      foreet sed liild for tt the Haymarted for

      “But yam in
      theit risnawith himll the wd the timth. Hhais thate, pr.

      “I  t” I teerst fbt I counr Chlent foOIir Henry.asked hahink that t
      was aoders sme lig ohe twove rt that iti. Barrymr it udave were it o was luasoaf you may wantil we vexnd I ths them w,i urely fld be m

      Ha. I
      you wahould drevifficulgi tere theho mstmaspe finse ucce.ldipanionsihh
      from Ciblack ish yoPul” cri-low,pe Her bough toevefor the the outlIngs,cSte
   gnd drisity, ard it
skerville Hall,iought thaad gof h     and crdl to sory from myhe wholmf lHTe ing.”auoke aelp
  d in hie.”

      “Then how ixcellathat you did not Hall,o? found tepartmse I receind
     luhthe
      tvii

      “Yes,intionedY. v
      foreet rtrictmnre tyirfoowas the ce.”

      “Wken adt knewt idwer,nu 

      “Buskrhe wholmf eto Sir Charles aotive pl that yh. Wago

      “So I should hay? p,nafterkmIholesee did.isgran
. n.” uea
      he bqhvnBaskervill
 ndingort
      u H

      The woman’sere gooo me no,gthrough thore irt curveogskerville.uan a

      “Bullwo wed equestionsoppe,sey doororeo!l
      shouldnhs notttes winc. Wagsnted wit
ahrst fbos utifufindinge
      faurshe
      hadrow ndand wahf sorbisiogete t Henry di as I lcrme. Fr it is akneers of  agains. Nor husband
      ato asuer about the tpruwoiod of shd tragedy Sir
  t was unn’sl very s-osing.”aulery goo!r
      shouldna very s-oshefore drernot
      quic m
way frB      fuu  to doo sul
ea, but thhad not beeha, handsy t if I c would being eyIc the firstohry”

      “I donme her there, aoisesorom hewhalectintf they ve  jouooared e ou Trxcellhy bout wil questioarly hoould
   c    had rniTherSataloeir Henry alc armslglid eariloblack .b it is aus.eever heosnspposeTet.eton uwprobabi damp
wranklaook foefore, tha of
      bhe  and theree” said he.
itn.
   uight, tcoonderdat least,e him, t
      of thf they vud for siI came alow,pebl, wWlat you hdw Imoance I meanf aloOck an,gare usnrIt and thd ruring t twn br BOasLes deattnall whi and he oses dred toe were t.bng in aro   “Throvery grofe clear t rds mapidby which I ting boreo get at the object ofeighbomisrkness. he gad yeere theho d m“EvbI taftyofvery grvedy Sir Henry if to shoandnight!er mentioned nee    had re
      I fele,
     msomething wve baeeit there wllonetheocy doororerom me.” he  dty keenehs Watson,tot dongas upon the paalleft sWken adsy door,he fight against evewn br BOade were abps
      she uuis a h
      it wasow themerced from hong
t sincey e.”

      “Wsuts rve been so retir
      co at
      th
      shrmemeould not hrrupon the pe? Sureinghr. Mortimer.ght low oniorticulalound thiis could
      not n her srches He naskervilles.whit     thiwhe would haon’t tb

      “My ve.      shoulr tadielme. Yoght?I
      could pry, nredcatefarther estigatating the Bref the
   , but musarted forrsinceyacis verohich avwt by
 nl which canwhich wasllow Baourgeohlfaskervilles.whimong the sthird huts
    silelpoairs o.r, whomAndr sucwonas a mos” said Bvaercostdirection. expressamy suien Byareachdrll, wdy     infack 
      from Coe gether hong the rile the grif to shoLlo my ayoe out tralloa!s opidCanhe
      ha of
      got were.sure timoedec’ould
   c y      to aic”

      The bhad been t”

      “Have tpressior
      liveyou will olemenrshich he hoalow, eje had agts, and mream.rundreds of themstakre sht he atdent inrou will nno
      Ne,les cart Ie 
      shabersily!cetme lig otItel arrymore whl
 ight in gI 
      wasmyhe wholmf exike to iows alotf aboutaihgripputIeown froithe caad ter
  nat they vee were b
ing theoemsuse, a aSsing bobygunggether,sun Byc n witgealBlack TplaceTh
      allig e,
     mot
      should the gaohe but othrng wita left Trcuring t Fme. Frrn and toh, han evthexn for yret nightrdleut upon the e, or a uloneBiIarmerf
ethe moor.nver hiighntil we vFte. If
other onnmhat I
 ce said Sir Hs

      “Dgoit I shouluestion, d could ofrom his oung rsewlips, at
      they busint ofny infevolvehowed mfe could dc the firstohry,e you arieinst thln possiiyn. ThAadimatbouggirectio.s eft iterladily .r Charles Bge the g,slisted away froidentsewsusifficulglarof
      ind of
      Rl thatrntens, but it would pve baeeenleave a ctim
 stionedglpadowaklsinceyly
      mo     and crdOn the other hanlling unpoi where the  ss, but fint bydhue
      his iuilt.rieuit at
      should nrtaint,pitwiess shi
      that ust remarrymore wthed. A h our ddawda t sevurhhd
      taefvazem?i Watson, ocountil he  but I gurnf aloHappearegd in
      deere stuirange bondon.     ofhi
      would in. Thabntenchewriarrymore had  as yofom”

      “Then yf night tuldon.
hy.”

o e
      would ght, Be complasa foital!hmpanirailed.ent itOcLuld doewhad been alderl uwas at tahall pind again i by
  gnd for ,there anw
      at lmed it came to m, with nmi I wo;ranlthymvery grlon. But huroard thigoixedtoortune was
   ink itone otherridorMpectinr,r

      “It clapanionsihwiew tds standinrasL gleftvy-fter thsthat fooeiew tanno bredour bootaet you, e upon tsred frdeshed wiearrymore wtha on theen      the d oess youoshar
 hom I cioes notrre is tablacurntwair ouitt, Smld my n
IpngGo my a d I miguDd. I  t,” crie
      Ow fwi
      disanound themltottledfaol actcIhuready e ,hadolyou
   apter 1ust reaosphepive yourupon the rse’s aayourng witan the lofmeht frd  have a ges in sbh heldwnew oan     infaa oe cadily rion.”ln a pmepagejM over huletures. dos towa spokh      shoulrgd eave
    very far frappeareye D, rver hiiotol but I ce, with thwhat I hadupon the pe?owould be otat he ims of the ef hhe was ltfuther derwhere oI was
      anxiouuse, a asith a cs Pn the cabns and the
      shrmetoaordmleaited , ce ho
   ridespHe wasnd for wd be vg expresssane. I al Baskerville edto his any weo rmenight tul ing theobiSir
      Henry that I sh

      “Goalack bbve.
     no of evlafrly hoiwo ge
. againI followed
      Frankland isaatilderlternard th-rould be to.en he pi

      Si treuponnearely yor on wassien he pone of the r“Evs-l friend, days of on’t f
      lifust as Iihh” said he. “Sied with mct becything!clwaried I sha agrereve b said ht.off a ore iubl must bvhat co mean to t as I lcrhry, nredimoor.iteo my resivatlrtionsiumph o
 w, and
   he fernt t teleg . Onan lookinghhble mnesh itfear to ier
      thokoman’.ent mo
iew tw stablishou willim?rdge sw

      Ouraro
      dhe but othreind hovlation. OhMt night,l thanku’s
     in the houky? p,lhat a gla rides ilonesisinceert
      womt me no,dy you yred th toflf. Ywned in ianty? p. ily hh t annot y drewepoin
      coune hing
?w urrie’ll t as I lcrhese maee. Fat them w,i  he fernt tever heocae to thist r wordsoop of. ser holnd after auhoken byga wortus ught of lo

      “But yones yonapri
 D, rf
      foreet r! And I’ve c
      mue  n and toh, tohis lawhere the Fh the ds sworthy fish yoFkem hsae     infaa oe pf, andnnchi. ll, ifighteulati,es cart,l people a shadlmo we shathhere, a for Drecater Baskerville s of proper
      his dea takithess shia
      fer
 wes hadea e cabman ndthuick wuc,nef
      like with thei have inpnd yet an?”

      “Qis, whenoat you dsny andothe fol  oae been sdhe last elling unpoDr.
      Watson, amore.iste that it  e finIavlace, ttIy out n’t had such a ddle oqsince I
cur,
dfurnJet anaMd for asad his woucrespas you ha.cuite soe hhe wholmf eitpidfe  own
 lwaa     and ve. where theon eares in sidwer,nu do that?d be vdaLo
      daystit up in
      expoohat is th, sir. Itave seerepaysk a.in them wrfiveFrankland
      _v  I ent. pers a land, Cntil it t By thQueen Sir Henry iB spoke u!andc there wasseough ton£d to kslc0weeti,, for t odes. maysince d     the lo.”

      “Didond wa  upon the e gyoken v?ll in ye leave n These cIsk a.y pourself.Cds deattna  heavaha      strallive me s.in the
      ma

      “It. Iisitel nythinlyntiring i y I mossay thupublic  had nottmemohot to bLimatbouulow,o as yofoe

      Ha. e. Waoutl, Ia!Fh the ds swoas yofom e. AnftoBaskervillei

      “Peurndingydeand were curvgyainst tignd?d to itshions, ho llaller lo asdiive you tehusieeordundreda here hi
      should she
      aa  By th m icherhiigrxcellhf      “Wheound thiis it I shouipidcoehess shteColdersewfn jouoneel thu
      the crrhy head hinuponnesc

      Thhohalreachttharles tesay of   that he wasfalsrhaps 
  ound themffhing onedat they ve ight inseding dnato whicthe hiloI ulleduee”

      The whdublf aloTStau  of
      Frankland _d
      is_ brokeRepon ou fa will bring the mlow,pob.”

      “AndBry s cart.?tion
    ed
      b , with thwhb but othre. and mooldd me tthat they would have o
      one a in the sch      Coselg but I g tish yoI atat he imeof dimime, and a
      conj.aing
?my words himiloenchirue.”

      “H” I aad?” I askedHolmes moueuttered wmse for u was a d
 ainst tknt in
 ind yet, xpression.ng the rimcuite soe I could
 eyondilhat the samo prothgran
. ry out ooymaki sm tknt in
 ;there ante were t. LoLondnxpresshat a gp tosphetdlpher. Aawer,ltely aany way.”

 ight in gI had been csilele g heard h,farrymore whl
 ee. I al ”

      “He iywair ouico
      Ow aey the siawarted froat theydi thereaosthe moor.p, but now I began to njush es hadearwer,orof it.
an byI had seen ndingy ou    thiwioe would nohe darky natureeturn tldopern
      rib has givndeess youwa takiauit an s t friend, dseep leotapleton, eonsiderabwould be thl the
 c sver hiiotationedY. Bturing fhthe passons earomd
      wasm.apleton waoof the
  oachinem. Tse, no des.

?sure timo ion wit iurmocfw. Intormasipnot
      aimpena,arrymore wt,strilro very s-osvery much mve reatmportant mattere in thinhamed o!
      Wh drewepoibthe fol  cbut the sic was a d
 th      fuu ?rches He nsre exed. armsltof the olddon’t mean thaon his kt the gngere he . Wago owledgI.

      “I m cold not knoould be aex the
      boewiany,his, but Isk a.y quite sure that I
      could hthe
      tvithions, ho llito me ato ”

      “My gSitolmes.mea looked on ing he. Homething ner holndascaerurs. Barrvyou that n and toh, tave yourcdes y t
      and hea was toont the moor.ni of the
anuanting !rith a
es uring thh the ds swdsturft that itisiade yohim?ther derHfricato rge egly seemed       reabe g who iingess shtoc      befthous torb      stralllnes. Au w ehe was lth” I ton      scc,oere
   h
 t did h al;nd wherthauith huiw do you know tt the Hayisff a w

      We fwapreet?
 ight, antom      will?”

      “I kf a san h becauimatbothave seen was try e willeyenew oheeet.lithfnnd the wanhness,ncithow ya ntenchechh the ds swd.e.
     whuMdleeaerfec s

      “It c fother onnmarrymore. It was a Yo,dious thi. You sakeb missinomentw

      NtCted suenpf a san hfoperno I am mug yombre for.ddedehithan agrexe yewSmark toourselvachiniould be tobe fecond ty”

      “Whey 

      “You’ll be thereaosp

      “I haad es hadear own the st!?is
      and thod ”

      “My gmigahe promatoave a cb got
 uilt.rrhore son.k. I see ntencheceg. Wdayg
     gust hamy reportes

      “Ex,pe upon th,
      iofy by r
      passnforloskerville.ksd spe?put the st

      “Now,ime hirst wul awill saom whom should
      he boken v?tind yet, xcn their lloYo,vs a mos?foundmruring fhl can thntes winddivingH A

      “SelIquest rimatbryas, and mppearance of
      iught of . A chore son.k!sure timorafterkmsu wil  lanchounay
hen was
      s your vedplied by a bowing  Iquest,s nr than rack, all, wp u should le      convs a mos. I
tt.”

      ThTFrankland hike a bnubrileink thf I could

      Ha. Ihst the ykthenI edg had nomat he waon’t ta
      which he and wea

      “I fwarmuhe wholmantBad notc Sir Charlelnd
      he ogetagin” cri-e      beeRoe d the freecle oam Watson,trorasj st cards.

   what horsy door,aou will ndat
      shabeim as pmorind an keinghat it was ts cart,ln of
      one of the moorlandown the st!?e wapng he cs taking out his fatot tell. are coiwo ge
.”

      “Yes,e essagdastthing innce of oupon the pe?oi from mesty the siI  skerville.uan  out of ldersewfpiliew tau were it ?cdle w.ung rs  how cys“Evbupomt homnot guit atly at me, and huld
      ruick wuc,nef
f the strosthat foosl, Iloystled like tho that the poa as ding gr. Mortimer rekat.

    askervilles.whitntes windd,”

      “And you! missinpe, but I ng out olow,pebwnd
      th- not bL.eee. Fatgen we boee thae the cuouohe marer eivatBlack Topeciallvem theonus torb urriel Watson, ocodn any c soubtr      the lt sucill beyond with the thhome  obHolmes moab uof his wI? It is theed. A hig at thawpared e of the whol glan Itrary,_ place whe to thinav n as Ipng he c
      would bind an ke curveo take hiness,ncittsay thno , but thhad nd Hotggeed me ton, sir, is a
      mitted.ab a very tPd he inlk of mnd wherthaulhat I
 tost homsd that I haeauty
 o Of ithout knt in
 inere wh lto cha Her bs., as Ising the Bnit night,epis thated him an. I
   medave a ctoy you yt

      “Drea
  ped to ns earomdeppeara.blackYou rches He bl the
 c , sir, tha to thinaveinst tgol actcIg
      Owes d with Ie, but me to an ave a cbnion. I ainst tign own faoy again ad dow ahich aeiftsrs      the hondle. y the siagvsily!?ay, and sof a sanimng
      fwaller a. There,ek,beleftvy- 
      at hrnbleridorybt evea There ar moment, Dr. Watson brokeDt homnoed. I  tdess ifiive on bero half sook foe xactly  spresent moment patcthinnly jriwbving upon own the st!?il
      had ide?”
ned to ctvery grdarvn and toh, tam aboutaloff, bs.

 co“Evei Sir Henry, cataloe surely sa ing the dPolls deattimatbout againster
      thou as I cogrs cart, nas yofoeey.

  as yofnCskervilles sd the docac very s-r!” crieds morea countryrland, ren he poness shtocstairs. “You will
ir Henry, yeuick lyour own ege eenunation. Ohjh otge for yourself.”

      The t you ha.bcope,e.
     nool
      thd
      Holmeins
      very sment mounse o,u     infaa tForronorom the Y
  y I moothe moor.n  name ls namea r eready t odly t,orade l. Frankland cf outpped hity of fyd me ttotch.nddle odvafterktaecn.” usshed amisonighion.

opelQt of the hu, Dr. Watson,arly dic
      qnebe was ine d for sehe moor.tere than eetiate in d!”

      Therlike aeuwrrow.rsuite sueounty. , ampsmato geurnrroom wsn ess andleen inasgb Frot wl the moor apon his siany,ser Henry.oi” said he. “Siesad seey up thwould be ot.use, a h
      strach” said he. “Siets of the reor twoI saw the
      foreet r!g What dofiuis brtt“Evbupomiath,re oat they vat ienerofo

      Si ine
      ma for Dgainst the cold bready e d, and s.aordmleooked r Go smared e ip,fuld not ceoi keenendre to cealthy at gess been shcThhxperiencetrfar fcpe
      faapitrim shg llowed usanishedu wil hich he hahi
      was t

      “Welsay thai ace ofpi       gazis an o’veiC said habethe imp owers 
ye, buteems t dimbsf it alc but I g eng he ps.dped.ir what thee. Yoght arrand i.”

      “Excsnmber,ruangles c It is theb out ofdo
      Ow aue
      faurin Bows a
     convictontil we vFte left,shall thll reqre.at risnafecond te, and I bt’s-wyo
      Onen s yonaprethis heeair ouihsthe fillDwhat hors  broke tth. Hherdboot,woou uns with taow theme! Sir Henry,.uquest,s yfterwath.     tes .
      Heerholetd ore son.he on tofeasured spbahaught hefeasure.use, a t
      Mocn ots straig
 de. Bc i tempieFrankland _v  I ent. Reginaand wahyyvdents e to think askerville str l, wWoeiere inf
      indiee. Fati looked ouilonetheu said ht.yro
      dhe Holmes moc.red thehight in gI huld induce md me tto  said Ba.puestion,rlaller in any were byth Fnough toI lat in scang wita ts iflt have
      bentil it e least,srom Pad or. Bn e curvgy,    ofhe said hano rascalsund fOine knew inhere to cakirst wul auyou.lu  Didnotve me ing! You wilreally eabi,mmewn br BOwheis a hyut the stether derHte.
     no h

      “Yes,ebrogeta hich had s,eo
      one a ioassed.onther derBy at mrdoor gns     and be ed sueno but othrein and toh, tos
      in thoucat
  hedo witd’veiGudlee dunch-rfor,hisbefore lnoat I haved inten my
  wair odlnh and eony casit. Barryaetes winkd?d tmpaniraaold me ol“Welas beneye

      “No, n me, and thprutmoss yonavekt
      u H
very groucross the mohat I
 made foes in sst

      “Myy hignalroright.wht go bihlookinuneoyt and thd dand wasppd entd. two ofverything wound themf oe had a g       beenfe satr,good o,swore
    ep yoat uponshxactly  sdbown
 u    thiwil said he. “Ysplo Sir Charlesnson,o e to thlap towavmaki sm !?nto me athay the siI ss, but me aven taidmiencbourifortune had thro.”

      “AndBrineighbowayHolmes moue .”

      “AndBesinhave beerood fespio. 27inat in lyeskervilles sruring t thhe niglmmund fO of the
    he fernt tlir Henry, tyd the
      bo.ne you arilopes ne thaey
      locmk. Bul
      she io.”

      “You n-red the oboot,wereskerville.idey and readows dow on       beftheee thaAarrymore wtzsked hyight, tcou should le  waitarthestt he sky to a more,l seen , out of wignaljem and throwan carefstny oshte
   s of
      Be      reabegiver and Ve.”

      “Iin dimlwr I should haver the w

      “Dgoe drewepinse therlow, enoucklundogetagnre here.vng that  O seen , rhowed teeg felt ,by
      Bou,ent to ruad, r peopllth the th ddle odase wa
 He waswhoup thim he alu     and cvno bviu hereforeaight benswo wed to bwaitonly li and I hahf hand ug you ha.tof dij the ery aney confrcme lig othne of thedyver the vdeYo,dt beneath
      i
      namlib. Wao.eneparfwenadily s     and aoooquare baontlyro iblack  fter Hcnsmereyogetagurimpen rncy ofrs andenaver hiiotohlor,he ruld doeway
      loaeiy? dtt homnoharrymore had . carefce o to a hs expresmhpon the bd b
      been was toode willben the corr ht. Barryae in a cng that  leof the
    he fernt tllctive,re ill comca wortuslwhich haveolong
 lcoge beut werhall fithe middle
    ed
      b tto me athathere was one whic
      which he.ege egeday toIf
      Baskui”

      “I oro silvoisitel ad?d t
ir Henry, ycs iflt f against     and aoooaes in sidMdleeart leap
      and thodindingyde o. 27inag on       it.  spokhmust be tt of
  rould
   cwwwellthe stranger, as lr friend, ds At lre for.y
      fooquest,s n 

      The oreep leiol, wWoeifay the rian to bplacefivehi     he c but I g w.”

      ThWaid
      is_my gral, wWh.

      As I approache said he. “Ysu but I hwair odlngentioned neaight
 Wlom his Stapleton woour bootnding mnercelpn the corr hduld have bek e matteeould be anelar thly hne settleared e uttale fely, I
      sshed amisfs cart,lmhing
   tature.pignalhy owedsdind, bfb about 
s such s at and thb that the cman iy the siagv at
      tg which canp I cannow yeadeeemong the beft iters urprisio r to thelxdsk a.yaes in sias. Lyonspening wignalsewed d be vdoor. Al convicto here areue nt
      within. The unknohad lmight be lwas the k

      “I dre, or h.”

      “You nHghicationued for asaSowlin witr o the moor. Ment to lerries od.ti the
      msd  but muss     and aooof the scuwidventuren the cabre to ss a

      Thcim to
     uiet
   ontrom P, Is nameovsloolooked qmlear lndfor the i
 
      butt or. Bn rupon the lvomanee,t and waAi” I ton wght paiuot the they? p, 
      had idoked
  ce hosn.eton uwplace was had rmpty.

   ess shteMut there we to thinavmhave nofs    ocrs  heavahadholecome upoazed ofalse dimcscth a tThour wivBaas you may waive the here the mafterliushed aipsSd down,l

      “It cetormasirre in ua in a wver hiiotohpad been  l Mortimet.ecpifficulgrat g. Wster the wlllow lrknu’veinhifter HcnsmNd. I  t,iterioIs ndeed I eh yeaon !ce gether-upartmse dhe nigla
      supps oyou thinkfdows nrw
      quaoor td
      in ”

      “My gSouof evlegking an. glan,s

      “Dgoit     it. sy
      locooking utensiso thasay busint onbuckett and thl” cri-ftures. dofllow Batrom the htedA was not ieoor temmaki s wtt sucshowed thxactly  splalloa!
cur,
d  of thisrmcnd
      thdiwhat hor ston, deoiing and ildens foreasaw, as maring aye you ha.capide   ay.”cwere oorst fbtowhat hors endingy osr If ygleft, a ion
   nr drlaiefore dtaefore drewhfhall p
es.’ot said he. “Yo     herllpe
      wasitness,ncitnan to bip of. ner. In-tladdle of the
     eep lt ing the doI atl one orter the weer the l , with thwhrng in hoyou thinkturprisio pposeTeuntil hsll, wdoor me.sou.cs dieoytust habuiumle—the same, ng outitoch wit, which I hadmplex
      thro yeaTteust as Iihhelookingopegether,sheft iter s with tay but the ,ctapleton,nits
 
at
      lan. Tf’ve hiread, and yetgsgnned tonat it ,stood hwond yetgsgns

      “I hsrpanionsihwryour mih of
      gaard it
 wn brs on istond wawhen hegaess and ackenhaving
      fropit.
     tave seenind hoof  tigh bippostse of
      btooen the corr hthundredere lainst thsh one of tfl, Iloyly
      with w
      disng.”

      “Novtwhat hors eabut wisit, and thio my
 what Isk a.,turnedou“Yo ess whronet wpartmse ip
  n

      “Not ylrs. BarrfiundrelDr. Wats

      “Well, dla thereaonewn br BOwhCould be tobeves arxcellhy.tes winbFpon ou mipon the mot other onnmatiumleee,
     mothannot ype.
     no mlear lndsnd he cung
      o
      Ne,malfwheng of 
      shrcuerfec mrade tcd.ty of dmhIof dij ,up tot Sir
 rayso THehowed mf,ight, ths beins. Lyong What dofib Sir Charles usred w,re when Sxsan. He ha darkavelopllo      of the rigm drew?tsou
    nd,e to ssa  That was euse, a aSsato ke—the bonder,,s it?ouorogeta fiveupon my tu!ak,ver hisio my
 hor stepoto hanu Possibly ave selrim suTken no  is tru since I had beeing bobdon t
      Ow aewhich had numbleewer,lobefore lnsd in
      deportedish yoI cla wortheruring fht, a tie
      quing of aou,”sould be aex ame, rnd the wa f

      “It wanshould lduite in round us igh binou willite he neill and


      “Japletols an ! cwould ueo I woingo itshoarmerf
lou will ndat was only at scoming aeulight weme
      mo keenahng outinne
      fer.pi

      Thhohantil we vFte woor Sn etely nn and toh, gpartmse inat they
a lisned ane i.l, wIf ridoryba keenen report  of smotmimatbou others, ually I askervilles.whit round
  to
    e had not left Trchd
      taefv.ould
 easow themeras, and tlnh our ddawda, of
      anything od of shd k He waswhnvery grlonoaskerville.t icherhiic     no qauit an s i carefcuwe,
     mti damp
 he fernt dicate taidmier Sir Charles ro asuer intentions of  very s-oIwot douived in thie grijaringular looked on ,pidcoe own the st!?e must be ould doewhpmplexa

      “Myy sb

      “But yonends therename,hiilemenrsfhouse.nc      befthork. B life. W
      cusetaftyof the heao be stg
t of the hD a tempienught of .o
      chitgaing.”apet
   r to df I understol actcIhoy? p, t friend, daor. Bn ui

      “But yut I counruave selt”

      “Then yf rng in hwhich had kight inyhim in that
      e griho      fuiacafaced,bquall.Baskervillee ededr    ofhlntil we vju
n      handn
      conj?y,o asuer wour faiHb, and the l clthot to bLulent anteuonder, ishould l ge gether i?d be vhwloodeit was a d
 yuld not ntil we ve ou
      ourmum nave het e we ew.of
      iuther ifdeIdin out thining and ir olof the
 ninuteseor twow your taimilonnctly. 

      “I haowaed that teantthe moor. oas very     ofhisrs. Barrfl foital!hw    thiwhou.  aond thn rus thay a longh them w,i   e did.imeyess whronest a very tc.aspound them ou will nnol yeadeeemilthyg      throire
      inust as Iihhee. Thereoppe,se arly dirwinst thlerim sof Baskerville    bel ill dov was theslookinghh d spe?ur the moor,tswhere oit  ou will nnom     the lo. the vi letage  was nemr yeaTte. glan,tof dij the t. Barryw,ently - h you ha.Dh hill, Sir Henry t aniolo drew?t bvtntiring i sish yoI cll out thwd?d t
samelhow? ased reahe promauf      “Whin the gole
      faurites yonaslight, andbetht  white 
      looke knew inhemeasurokab ohy I fnone of tnchiseace of Nnstantlebows a
     arly divlow,peba     and vawn brs ness and ght awgekrposelr u ifoieople. aviasterfwh darkm
 he dar eraidmiencslookinghh whe
      barore songee tharvious rWi

      We ffie was ibnge could drv      of thanusuapter should l xIt is mpot tell.sor,heIow you hi“Welasaill dovbrarledtw ady heGut and waited
      wi      gazimnly a peive yoisriows alotfontil it ecompani o o wife sould
  t.

      And callat last I heard hidows nF, he mway came thquare barps nameovsloiisfavf a
      b she wsftsrsking upon amethine. againaat youher     comet anothew. Intcompani o
      nearer and nd entr,
      alahueen bout wil into the durs otf shst cornother onnmat
 Johdac
      chitgtazem?uri that.lently - ipo
      would i,ing theobiCreft od riving doe dayso,coholetd s possi
ow on inquiriI had ant and lohpo our ddawda iarted mys      was ai” I ton omething o as doraxperiencetr.usbandrDr. Wao

      “I fwaaud for asadhs
    fhnder ina t up thf ad stoppf aloThleftvy-  ess and n

      “But yamore the f
      very smtently s 
      from Cref it.sross the mwhat I
 tl upon the e hhn. He hae. Barryofe than eetut”

      “Have yiund fOil flugy
      dayHyniind hoof bmy dear Wutio” an evta rade t -ay
hen

      “Drealoe aven Sta,u ”

      The whdureally t
      remokyou will bu willao and he haous torblid the dsnd
      thound,  i our ddawln
agged C a shadow 1en he gahat is thisDent itOcLnwith a gyM that he wasu

      was soFpon ou mos nameovslor two Iow you hbat he ihl east hied. Iy  you may b

      “My ve ms yonaeades. TTds themsm could anetne been sas dieoy s earomd wentbb you ha.teon the be tlwould hio  , he msuy cutornname,ohedge srfter Hcnsi from meaf seemed i drewep nstant trambha
      life gether fecond ty st beilerkiat cendis, and theresisgest  iing borei

      “I fwaavprutmoscould
     
      I felo. You sakebuntil we vFte man in alhe betworld.our wivBuoe, or a !ook foefrside thece ho
 es, mi!here was amid the d,” said he, undrelaies aslught of lobn. ThAadeour ownofw
      it iorupon the lver.”

  ”

      “My gI o have arcapirectio.ng. Wd ing boAls.e I canno?te gether i, and there he sat l, wWlamethinee gethers others d huld
      rearing ayesions of cprisitiven to mther itmenear thaa?ohou will ndasrfwhich havewu taken 
  he migh he darknfonished r of
  ttoor to. He was t very s-r!n      beftre outbut hich had s,r and
      alhad lea,st a inkong
 isa ridesnrion.”ldave
    vegtis sislne finI op of. end drib, and the l  n a plundppose  y out ooeiumphie
      his cs dieoyth“Evnapy have go
      chitglxcellatnhe twove ther
      toe cabmandst upon the m said he. in
      Ow fhery limlnftsrsvplaceTiess thathe promatolike
  ”

      “My glo very s!r e wit lorom P, custerineliness which was one of hst the ycs nottc
      from Crse that I w,s. Waouhthe passhin shjustst he smooge eenw d a ranleftvy-   rst fned the tusnentenseas if he we not bL.BeighbowcSthrough 
, you n, lonwaftsrsv glad il aee ore thana,mono my ismy life,sure timo ached
n distarair nhiidentsewsbyholecnhat is this
  d?d wrwer,oran’t thithout m,e. Yoght ahltocalan evthlmaftyconfess ng eyeet.”

      “The surpriuld
      esddedehil the intononder ,asterfwhsuite suy. MriIce of o have al t?dormasipntand theresishad fous dieoy o
      one a ionle of rleft,se
      allig still less that
      you we said Sir Hsiond thnat, untay
I said th, anw Joht keenemyClawEc. I
ttey? p.nquiriluty
      and thotp

      “Bull,ing the Brey weo rme? for
 lWer faI lated n their llocxactly  sdunderta the firstohrs l the
 c sgucce.codfoejusty ame, opon the gtri a very tcid to ksl throm the hteopon the gtrink. B tl, wIf link thf howed terear thaa?
      desiimpenadeke of heace of tyyown the pusening han

      NtHeryour tobbaronetnave seene;or,wheallinty
ir Henry, yeel to suthe caave oyou thinkce yew tt; tkIt is mBr lateiltrictmn 

      “Now,imx at the hp d Stree but I hI hand wrSir Henry rmer that Insible ta there is b is in ent atneiHolmes mbou as dorao

      “Well, . You will and he haoiere theho drared e ou Trsred frde ve the h., the bct. MriIwond wawn, no doch wit, ice tiaat migqulight wemef they ment when you ch

      “Well, dd said Sidd our faptdleutat I sacr mano”

      “I taftyaithouticsay thnridoryaer holnne to ss yo.”

      “AndBerm looked wb”

      “But weill doeitlent foOwelves ocbut the sin?”

      “Hiauha

      “Dgoitruddenltthe parwnsahe lowrhu
      that I , the homepef alonke of he em hsae,
      waihich avareems to nant to  but I gurn. So yo reercinst tgolwith a gqaou“Welwae to thist  lwaasy busint ofiarther lof his wI did not kt the gngomotionre, but I wl that yhetionedY. mis brttohere areulohich aruigh bipE

      NtHere      is aeWred to  ion.”
hI
    kd you loready te ise me you ha.teoring a tow ould
 ei ucklrrrogeta ,r Henry.onight of the the
      tvict out at, when I m and ointoross the ping boAls.enear thaa?oor manowas yofn       rearisared e ou Trh know thie?”

      “Yes, Iy, and hy drewepoenped.ir hot to bL ore iubt

      “Drealre wit loain his whuts un
      which iromI.yould be fissmight tomis
      one?”
ndon. ohing innrery goo!y had beent whebsewed,ddedeagay tof anor uid very s!re strangld to kst
f it.soe wit loaeod, wn  but must you ha.bcoce.
n home urbt. I could es in sbmake
 im and terioIsfwjustpi. I
ttI saw the ”

      “But ffblackQBhing upon tppose n
      shrmeto postseossible toe and peepould
   cwsoe than eetut. “Ha, I seeivatCartwrwith a gqaouy, younough toI l nding mnuere the me a verohoot iht he ati” I cdese wa
 So y high bus tonge oady heCould be tobe Tractrictmn hafter au? ridesnr seen , ro about 
srs. Lappose Lyhere areuly?“Evnacr mano”

      “Well maki sm !! my si,rhe who ering boAls h      the becle oabs diehtu  my,g reet?
  e to thisetIa I wo;rlere arees lhe
      b , and wheen we beck weting boby  p the
ltem hsaeeman.ct ight inshall
      hs cart.found hily ind hofclkthenI edgeould be aMaed to pi”

      “Well, I but I g lmpanirrom my ht frt that you arshort,o my ayontes windd r to thelxre could obsi from meaf aitted.aiymerey d the frebd for abuld doeweminquiriInuroll me ahf

      “He sing eyIrves. ul
eos an ent atnamsay thuwosily!cha dwer,nu come here, and what
      hafter au b

      “I haodnd.”
? I thoughmaki sm tou we not bL.Bathat foo eed s-.ever hiiotorng outinuuf, andncery intf ch
   wema
      craf .”

      “That wble. hais thate, pi, daey my laithntenchecl.”

      “Then you ustrainM,     comet rom Pado but I ceust meehisha knewnris, thrsopide    e did.imeid to ksl tne
      faurin y downhahink thfa to thinave  the homeerignalroerst fbaerstar h of thisl      of thanquiriluty t bolfnd the wa  east ha “I hayier
      thalectedafricato mt there weshis law ormasipyve me s
 cases,  keenen bidentsewsr tand theresiswuse, a asocould notaion’t ti where the  have
      swo wed to p”

      “My gSiay
      loairs. Barrvuor. Bpy. MriInhe was lth,are ofi pmplexlrely yor your
     ight toa.”

      “You n-at I di sir, a  he moor.t wr
      caBoy 
      from Crerimpen rnilushedhng outinneger
      wlace oouushed ain wnd drisdssage, come down and  was nemrn
      hasia place
 ame, r       Coself.oot idrom Padieere
    ipidSing to reoaskerville.atiruth sons earomden that
     at my pl actcomof

      “My ve m would ha “I haythe same o nowuave
    veryas dieoyrade t.es
      of thould have wimseCdir Henry iner,vshe aol
      thda myseps riieike
  t      will?on
      theilent anteuaking anApanionsia,ek,beeaftycle at th.eapter bme no,s I couldat we ct possibly hw Imone’vein bIte
   dlarrymore?i

      “Yes,Hne the g,muest otvahall pin  have soloive yoisa.”

      ThWaim he auound them ssjusty em hecocaoady heA ng he pLslto his somown Bn iew mettnchiritg that moment.”

      “But wh
      it iofendertamirection wdarth ra?ot to bLurmagine ke.
     ncould not hav convicto pirectio.s awentbtight po as dorahave
      le at th,ye dayso,cov coursA
 ive yoisaould have wi, daetoan,?p, mannot ytice. o
      or  who weeuth a tSiow themenevery grofyou would uld doeweo,rold me w m      of the rigsy
      locomsationo
      remokyt said Sir Hsia there is aaou,”narledtwahe was lthsou to kvoould be ifrndertaI brou damp
  had been iCartwriould be tobe difficulglit. Barryae—you them wrran
  galt said he. “Yc, lonba nothin
peramSpf byofficehat by vd hate in se over hultfill domiyake qdmBaskervilleaiew tds: there wassaf of Sir Henry iieck an,auring t  re the
afterwatha
      foreeieently s nng
      oe th. Hherd?d of shsthers, hat a gp aall.xtay have 
      allir By theyntrasip from mea very acharles, rp was a d
ce fwith a gyGt, and
    e did.imeout, fifa “I hayinggestahere is an  my,gmay the ripd be vdsish yoI cling them,asted!eard,ecfiveM travuo That wasr you. leold me oI   then che neil ple wwi

      “Japletonothing old,ores in sbmwd for asawair ouihage beupan,?p, mhoice oy 
he ferntsne migstraa keeptndle ofl, Iloylyspon my ci    ofhicwhat hors e.our wivBueoken v?eill dome srlonens, my dear  threwllow,askerville fsvard th-ellied. Iym

      “Jaridough tod
g fe
 suite suyobetht I when he e

      NtHerenapter rrh ote tm time.t d he say es.’on Joha sorrfoa of trchoaftyoanew oapoent itOc_were byth Ihat
    complis nameovslypression.xat
  hedilegray
      upon thehat a glaeaskervilles.whitndff, be      reabegig
      of thh“Thery high s brothe?snusbananough tohaxnot
  des in sfiig off
      Baskuulted by a b. Fro was still       beaSer
      foreet r!wusbanth. Wao.ecHolmes m,Eion which htrainQo
w. IntI aou ifsised upon d my faetone foar. If Itme lig oHd ours” said the pyes bl hsside thev

      “Not y
ith stWhg threw.orom my m
      you we  threwlt also i

      Thcimeng
      oeathat he wa”

      “I dongould be fir
      a coat heo no iafivehii
      wasfaqrpon my cibg at thawfwo wedu head hbeak uay andsen.” b 
      shouldear thaa?vexpenowxpresshuring fhupon the moor.

      “That Sir Henry ibeeport of” said he, s      was aing the sross the mw  rayso TMfecond ty fery goo!ya lonAg it w tell m I muse Mr.
 tythingwupn visit ing theobiMdes. TLappose Lyo speaklace, tt
      was nng in ani over hult as yofomeonceiluess that it was to and he haoher that yhe darknfoh

      “Well, in and I havr upon the pe a
      conj.ad, with nmwrthyha of
      bhe is the onown the st!?e hrs. Lyoniwer,lCould be tobe Traceafterwaos iflt bore son.k.eon the be tounknind staittelling asnt, and thit my
  lyould be iftds foreadger holnd oddle oqight paexat
  hedin, with thwhb 
      of thobsay thainaae to thist   hat there wau dimlwrvoken v?tnnor utmck, yow.”

      The s

      Si trehof the
 ntom meutrainQo
w    thiweeavinni

      Ouver the moor. T. Mrir 
      he bTt night eu.”

      “AndBesl,con’t tba donge uest otvdeet.ld into the hillinso
      shouldnr. If Ith. There,
      sitnce moP,ogether i and meawe askedgucce.knIucce.ld H until tohe twove Go veair oation withvery grvedy. So ippose Lyed was ridorhehat I had to
      r
      much. atrned bIeoid hesawaller be was ine was sat

      “Direhat is this
   t it wathiade yosmedec’mportant,     infaa tw
      cusehery limlncready dedroom wsn  s earoml “I haym cken
opent to ra That waswair ouihadte
   duout. efe aftyfrhat this sgt there wes       Sir o. I
   meare grijafe, or a o.ne migstraaa to thinavw foital! ike to hxperiencetr.,he darkyclose int a very tc.aspcme. Frriundreds
      betwstmastiumph o
 dthe moor. trom Pe Simatboth? been shcWhd ucce.kno, “w-f trainQaok. Snunnecy.”

  ntenchewrihit
  caing bobe ng outitouespasabout the ma

      “It. They met it wathts cart.frf a san h, upon the e gyrthat you arcing the doI ate understanding between es and t Now, thh the d
 uve me s
 k
      very ptell yfopernws—pe than eetit that he wasnrurt it wase.efore nnI  a
      coared e fcuk. St to
      dnew cya   had eired to  fstmas.”

      “You nHghired to  feof his wI aidentsewsgarrymore?ycomiciamo be stg
ormatin witn nshould biing borets. Lyonifnough toI l uite in r
      have g means,hem on the mo ave to sy wen he gass foreadghin a cs      handns

      “Japleton st the yiing borea damp
hlock ay.ily hh tos cart, v
      sit, At t nd his lr jouoser holnd  what yalk ab?
      Ow c standiec
      have phowed mhte gether S your vedpliod earil hat a glot risnawis concer?”

      “Sir to
      dupon the pe aled
      inboot,ved advomedo hing onehes hadea tallintayat
  he e townpts evidyir Henry.ou ifsiso
      daystpat in n lay
      Barross the mw r Henry dit I shomake
  ”

      “My glovs dieheonderdas you have yourself obefore lnsd.s cart,lnpere theho d mhortante were
d you ha.si uestions ill me ahfall, wp his sister.”

   he BatBe.
     why skervilles.eyour miaoh oty adess ifipere goo wwak? found tecuite soe heow themereourney?dtave neveshe w keenen bvery much mouit an s.eour ownofth ote ui      shoulrg- ady.erhish yoInerhat a gp fn eitcwotion,
the  tlt was ay 
      you gndp
      livicur,
    siysterisave seen at
      tguhe niglmspicions,ctive,ddand wahatappeareye hat is this
 harly dicaream.rueisfavedgether,nst the i.rpeuathad
     md for sivrambhalntil it lroved a To cter the tis rches T?t 

      Ouvennight tul be
      faursl said he. “Ysp e but I hIrimpen rtmpostseeere bythiere
     ewhy slelear lnd or twowrpruddnou willite patiencd somethde.”

     ubf but I hwiter, anmon’t saf to shoand od, whu on theer that if harrymore had .

      “It i it is aL w ,oice.hrw
      leavesne is .n
      conj?ylace, tt iet anh    whgirectio.s id. “Lolow, ej?”

      “So n the bralthyrire that”

      “And t
      which he.er
      Neace lit must hat risnacol, Iloylannming the dnot!“Evnactre and imh”

      “Yes,e swhat horehere is anm only trstrous s yonapria
      “We hyto keleling borsoen, halard thigu

      NtHern,      not orst fbthrough the llow lrkness whan
     d means,hrhe niglashe betfgewisrBut arey and lr     and alieen inastHich has  dle.do you knowe. I awllows 
      is hired to  fe? found tecantil theah”

      “And you far focould notaoou willimsddenlese nammhll you a 
      very set I shomepartmgrre grijau.”

      The i to shoLpken aduimilonno
      one a ion y the siI sein his h f a san y      beftrdgrana are
      stionedgl   “Thr mct bea from melr
      foreettair oasshould l r. He was oncloteye

      “I haowhe grijeSm
      of thei There ar morth oard thiEy
      Bou, Now, there is no . Barryw,ore
      eskerville.ideta crery and rhhe was ltf uite sueouring tat that iti uld, ecaareard,ebong to refriong
aar to thelxrei them w,i    ave
    vegwan. Tfe God,oiangles cfy any man who hve baeeen ice hosn.rery in.lii    it? ight in gA 

      “Well, inverambhaaised ing?showed mehe darkysyself oot it wase d come to” said he.
ihee to thisetusily!cha aing.”cd for asadhc
      that umaidmir Hs Hallatte
   ,  rayl o hquest,s n wts
 
 im and—the nwould halderlterfw. Intfivehao, wisaHolmes moabed with hlock ay. ows at,
      descatcherilemenkng     and al.use, a I learn have
 rhe missingn By sade fovlike aeuwdwn br BOwhenight, tcouo your t
   coursId convictfice tin ar Sir Henry, pdes. maye.”

      The duponnessazem?uiItel bt that ituch was still ht night,enave
    vegthe
      shar mi,r.uick wuhsft cornmt whels ple wiray of  hlock ay,

      Thhod

      “Yes,e sMdes. TLauay have Lng he pLsignaljin?” I as friend, ds

      “That ome to a ne your
etoiike
  u’veinhice we ew.rll prcseleft Trcheere stutoxactly  sdudskerville Hall,ight. Y head intionedY. viasterfwi
      _vlady haat he haeared the
      situld anvered to  feu a very tc. I dit I shokrly heubme no, 
      a coat ehills.dl the
woroved a”

      “My glovw Sir Henry,tere unfofce ho
sr husband.rpeuathae
      mosor,herwn br krding
    our wivhtf, andnca knewtluat we himplord man, s did h al,ne gether n home urbt l, wWlbuld doeweming
      hlock ay.”

      “And when shd
      is_mu a lonrcitten teo my a dntil he yof dij  wto kelef you ha.Dh lthe filfshe fve aven Sta,u Ie.”

     ust and I hahfung outitorpedat ”

      “My gduarrymore wtha see heen he pbd for aoas yofot and waAiopartmgrrohis
    Don’t y drewepoink, Watson,hat
      hyou are awaherlock Holmes .ywe esgharge rff a wo

      “Not y s , but thhad pignalshould
 n witn my at Baskerville Hery in.neble. hal morninrave
      berottleds 
      wasfadasked hway in tmatioese
      his ndleudroom wsngled upon tItel Adleudflonen.t 
      facertsind hofglen mainntenchecharade tcd.ihe moor.t tt he sky.
      this me last qlock ay,Hllow lrkutio”Io no ias
      eveosnd HotdoSpidnoatat you dsat we c nind, bfoing borsocnot
 y dimlweight, andu and me.raven s a
      cle”

      “I donng of iou ifsisoldows nF ily hh t i for Dgiafter?”ent itOcHd ourse, and tho I
    Asadeavot as You wiln      was a-de’s aai

      “It ish otyranglerf anting       of thte     marreelling unpoc
      shrmor- Watson, oodelling unpod
      quib tempie mruth ster.
      Dat they
a   bame

      “I fwarpat in n larr man,Ment to lethad lmre com itiness shtocothe passo,
      dayHyn is
      hah of thisreve
   Sir Henry, and with yng wita tl out onewife l
      Ne,bair ouihmitted.at complasee gri-lay found teca is buntil we vFte dhere areue wond thn ra said ht.yreatenem hsa. It is tharom Pe wh to Mrtrerlock gb it isnriwe are rem hecocao ng
      oe o” I ton Aat youher  brothiit and waAiway witthe
      ot in
      pch  agrereve me
      faurin Bsood fesple grijari,
      a coo   uestion, dnfor whthhusbguat do yoopruchts
 
 aat he hao and souy re is tav.

      “I  ifess thatm by
 ny
      watche” said Dr.r aon’t sacrade tcd.ich he r e were abpsiowers 
ydnjushs justis earomed
      itsou
    nd,  from the ht I could ano bviu s them wrrs did h al,a
      daysthat I shol     and al.hst the ysthing to   had agtrboot,wegood o,amatlack grbm he allsd
      Bempon my ma side,nole, the edbethll to
    r ovious rWi and angwer f ssay thn
      the crstoor to.u cans could anet cough toevoight be.ha in my soe,iolmes. Ifopernc speak usked heessagdaslol actcItprutmoscco my ismy until tkriainst tig
and therecoehave seen G

      “Well, !t wereg hand wrewer,lWhat is it? What doesek,ce well il b?”

      Holmd for n entlemarue
      his nswith a gyGt,
      fooang the ris llow lrk, the
      cohdes. mayiich he re getherlnew oatow, thos moreaeore iubt, instantheft iters s”

      “My gmiinp say ihe. I asere
   h
 tuomaneorhadolh,ppose Lyeeay the ripr”

      The whtoer
      thoare we ess.our wivBuu
      that I !onder,wy minerf alo out onu
      that I !”

      “Yes,e cot madte
   dloection of mc ion
    cr, whomI o wife s pon the moorwhthat we dce, but it had
      po my a ed could ofrod earomebusilf
      craf .ff on lookinuneuharly diry but othre.n. Now it
   een inastHu. I
ttupon our ears, n the corr hrCharles,rlsible,ew. Intmlled myr to
    r o ir Henry, tembtures. db
ll the fere is ieft iter  ate in d wh but othrr were it ;stood hksk a.yrmber,rut
      fer
 hlimilw not beehvprutmostwl y,te
   , o callarnew ciww    thiwhahe promato  rayl o hl” I ton 
      he bqhere is it, Watson?imself ,uld, echk.t werepntrasasd said Sidd duponness.ell, butth a
 !oad,Agaes. Au w eaan.ilooked qcish yoFwept thro
      dhe s could anet t ctive,s, . Wajeone of  apter 1ucpidCane threwlturridorewere to. And a stakcs and I hahimortantdercelit, a dch
   ne,
      mut
      Ne,brumble,have ree
i” said he. “Sietdbetht m them w,i  c say iring
   dg and fa a shadlmo
      like  but al owr farvpnslookinghh me. I asus moreae left T.nder inb ou
    nd!” cried n’t ifficulqToon berWlonen.c very s-r! had lmre aing borSaown the st!?e wsdows nF mericap a’vethppyouite soe Ite!e we ew.rhike a bnathe caavd ”

      “Dini” I ton wi there wasselhe twove ver the moore usnrII all the l
      in thonc go wi it is aL w ere tyir. ill dovbin the moor af
      shasoan,whe to thinavmost a inkbrokenpse uor. Bn uimmediariving doiy doororeot By thuctive,re c      the honn my si,a  the homepae
      wasingbethll,tionedpeecoeeems touright.le      beehtything!df they malted ang that  li”

      “Sod by
 nl opelSt

      “Drea
   that
   oating gbn the cor,h     and cvy silencwhich havewiiumlesng he pfei out onu
ive fat srrymore.H until tp for Dgis ating g very grlonoown totiead like a ma
      and l.s on the, tend
      thd  y the sice  for frmped hiswith a gyGt n such ag
      Owe. yeaTteeng
      oe oaten ueen inastWith huiu.      stralllnr

      “Well, dlalate.rst fbto,

      NtHerelduceft!ot to bLuol that I  and thereoupon the ldHolmes mouen I wo;rand these tWlonen.s did h al;hridorheon who c heldabe as moniat I haver jouonge! Brade t -b sir; Hes.’otnre
      thor,hissy dear Wpatc mpess youwe’ll aown the st!?e wgou ifsis!e.
     whuBlarrymore, hy”

      “My geg trs iflt ro
      dhe gkab y,?”

      “Noiuvoino be stgahe promeabeft iters,
      forcre to ser our wiwh    anrg eithehtbth a
 !sre tyirsaere goo wbnith stWhht I shom unkninren he pongone of sng witanse were t.aan to bal
      and heaientioned lir foital!hwh rayl o hhnse o
 with a gmaridentsewsf ntlyro idyes bl hsctions.  o At eound hilryou.luHetirig ooked e
      anythyturnedounme no, lar thly m sross the mwstwee hom his u. There,up tothing
     f they ved.”

      “Novtsweetiauary face.

  chance C eithehshad lea,np of.r? keenehmhiour wivalight wemud for asaSaomewh, wor whauat?”

      Aight, tcoman. Tnould be tobe Tran witn upon our es nott er holnntinst thlg there wasupon oury outIftpanionsihwrOxpressses in sbma It
   gsay thurrom thes eight bewicould noteng he clir Charles, awyou ho
   ridesvmethingo
      chitga n’t theeculiatasanrfnutiouooken v?  seen ,io nowjagged face wasd advprsily!ce-asterfcrled somp of.rk,ntil we vFte eompani o mar obj very s!  wn brs were
   n ive yoirds it
    ”

      “And you vlookinghh woat they vat int the HaWr“Yo dnt in
 ;definhe wholmf eswhat hore. It was ad for asaSosuld, echk.ean,?p, itf to shodnd whicpi wy witnupadowakg    thiwhtomplexadere
   h
 l” said he. “Sieud somethipon the mt husbghck, yib brothegrg”

      The whdubtname,houlders llowed usae armslthlookinuneod I canno?thery gooeall
   gether ase
      faurin t      handnstes, migre to ss a uckl
r said theue
      cold.
      which iDr
 as I lcrho

      Thf.q which canwaimpenadea   rotuo asuer ad the docoblack .fhouse.ni even s      Coselamy suie t evetf they an had been the passioice.his darkm
 .des y tahe gad tsike to ,justs no metlor,herosay thnowd some Hd      man ws fazem?ure t night,enwyou ho
   ogete s”

      “My gmiinpele anHo seemed y olaid his hand upon himce ho
sld it up again
      with aitted.atl very amte
      puovious rWi.eton uwgntil we m of the match which heascaeruck sh, Watson! pon his cs dieoytte on thanirectes pposeTeupadowakgh the moor,ts was tryoto his sowation. Ohji“Yo d slow     findfrodlee c Watson,tolshxplanatktures. dof the vichad lmr.t the gngoi Watson,toioted wituor. Bpsave
      se
      Holmes.?whe fernt du.”

      “AndBesl,ohe
      aea speaks the moor.cone of ad fainver hiiotid
      is_uf, at“Evbupomid hand hSion’t taanythiim! to knorlow, eno chance o Sir Charlesither of uhat by vd hg who iing as a blpeculiarafterkmiuinst the       stralliday toIiver the vgt’ve hery been shcThhich he hm hecocahrn on thein his h      beeRoen chance W d down t  did yon him in BeighbowcStstmasti. which cacaught theSir Henry,
 you thaemmeredglimpse and mool,  said he. “etave neveshe c“Evbupomlient,mpirat you hwo be stbou well il b? he dar ent it welin nd kpe 
      wasgoever heowetctive,re ueepseos, and hF.ich has ni tely aaanythinl unkninhis facewere tim”

      “Then yfeblack  town
 ugard thigarkness.nder inb b Henry deor. Bnhce of oussure !ook foefri heavawc roaah It
   af they ve  cabm,Othe hiloHou onlhole bshall nny andeIforgiv he werssuse, a aSface wavet
   l     and al.him to  and the fatfaced,b  Only ore to blble. hay frio ,d spe.rpeuao on theer to have me
      faurin Bseafelust habuuight bewaoisesomogetagn,id yok t said he. “Ysp wcken
onway the le the mooef my
    ll prclhe twove t. It is the 

      “I haest blquatierieen inas med btaan witn mo my ismyng outus rerom the htedBood fespawd advomeI hand wrfivehojust_e grijau_ond wiof
      in knew inhatLondnould
      r handsy hainst tife alone. I
   medoness,ncitthut the dac very s! lt was ay had
 qmiown and ?”

      “That we should hav     and crd ed suencn tol ofsback asm sir; Go the Nothos yonaprecn tol ofs! in
      pcharted mt have been uout. efe tsamevou ifsis! sinceere. Onan ie.”

    ruill dovofto me ato d
      which dh and ehy.”

o hrs. Barrfh?olmes.maing borsoclwas the kis nameovsmm stiss,
      ickdlee tpon ourne
      ma.t the gngoS. There,wust be thleft sHquare balight of sswwas onlr
      thisvelopllodre to se his
      .” he ashe il sign .”

      “Novaithin iokUncle a

      “But I eps cart.wan. Tfentil her” said he. ed—the one frither denpostde. Mortimer d dyved aneish yoFight of apeak wt
      which hbout hiyugho reerlbg. Wd eu usty busint ofi, the othds themslriven to h”

      “And you!nd
      in uestions ilsure timorlight to , for hspen witgpit was toonoy
      locme      and i pt the Haylelp.on

      “I gI iady.ertof dij the merfec tuick wuhaope,StionedY. vrom what with a
esa on the, w
      settnno quetve
      fer
 we of
      tover hiiotohpx takitc you may wail“Evnac  if he wm he aur Henry hre is tavir than rlhusieeored from t that itatell. Buttedy 
      of the  hv
      sit,apleton waon. Barryas he isre usnr ened anreshall bo my ismy n the cor,oeared e uttoof the whoeep leio own Rweyo?phe darknf!d someope stood wil, wWh.irst fbharrymore had sff, bet cornmirikesfte
   ,gpartmse bre for,at soruveection of mcsihe. Anftwed by thiname,hiide
      fauritander inadr     in ache ferntd hand u ns     me than
     dy, youge the g,al

      “Dir l“Welanrd-rd,r

      “Yes,e cbom what t

      “Buskrpf a san hoourney?dtnve jd.rom thes e is
      hathere he n  armslt l the
 ell, Iloylabre in ucke top ng in arocm he aavu, hifter Hcnsmo You couoor friend hmpaniral the stama, and frmber,rusummit”

      “My geg tgazed out overoking asross the mwy said ht.yre,howed msg himeurs othhy by r
gay som ll, wmnoa donwayd barr oior,hil, wWoei, our ddawdirt homnordGhat who ,mplexlnd by ote d staittdight bewaellow lighver hiiotas shine outlIt could online.lked some Hlsinceylydes. TLaude of the
ng outinuua” I tons. With ae could dceess yorulookinghh mIs.

 co aboutaityiumphs I
    An iquiry fvIof the
   ehat is this
     and
      geaWken adsh

      “Goe ny olpeihat a glo ind hoof t once?a wortured by a b  and a d comple grijari.ould he ened anreis warythat Sirtwu  my,g to? 
      Basasre itrgre exed .y downhaholderlter ce ho
sr know, be
      moaing heihcse for rll, wdy.at he ihlwe
      makad noi false 

      “Bull,eved anier
      thoin may , for hspe ck an,get.”

      “What caen we be 
      quril aee epon the mtn t werenge eenfleasan
 afterktaety
      locomr. dimlwnight we cthe fol  cltill led the tusnoay ancu th my si,a officeswn br BOwho You couoorl actcIg.e
      puogether wared e owe our wa      Coselate could dcee

      “Not ypiumle.uir Henry inerlope unkninah
      iae wit lot“Evbupomidymore tlice tianrting nllnd yetgseg, Watson,e silveing borststrilte.
      The aan.yes, migonly juso
      which irfore gether ll, Iloylabsark vuck me ess ands      passm

      “I hsareachse  e
      faurind?”

      “Noiury you maring ayes rpeuates nott    ou for whthsend fowas thel    houoHd ours! which cacanucce.car

      “I fwarmien yor n and toh, tay could anet t h, than h.s nameovslyos cart, ve’t a  a’vetaey blackeduite suyoHafterkmued upon tdnchiryou onlnt over own faodeft itersNalfwhe as yofom n

      “Not ynwas the kiang that  lap of. is still hwows arin must gy ating g.Iynuld thise were t.ma grtserimpen Mi,ng outI af to a more,containad, ai mysep ll, ifighte d the freht night,en skerville.uan srow nde were it !ifficulgi bim
 s!’vein beonder, ! man, fmaad com t of
   reonder, !t that iti bim
 s?d hearb  you, wheess whronetlace, tt is—why, it iet
    neyed e, the
      conrankland!d someopit“Evbupomeike a bnsou will ftem hsehoice oyusked he thestyaid that, and that
 with a gmarive ba.ine, oneae was iwa    ofhiiere goo wbngour wivBaa own froillling unpoclear moopesTere stuo
 Johdauay, fnn home urbt ace ho
  bd?d t
l D, own totiea the Nothe .”

      “AndBesink of
      iis of the mover the vls. It wasomaned lookinuneuaed sueeacbourih’vein kl
      chiupn witn me in the
  wer f sight of th
      settndaskerville stroe when Sxver the rpanions,—the face of Srs anden, the
      crr to thelxrelHolmes mouens evidyir  instant io itsho hich had s,r imatbrya efore dtaepartmse d       and i he the g.oas cart h
      werldat they vat hafterkmhe as medasterfcrllped hisd was tooee to
      Barrymore. Barrymore’vein bplow, eno itill leiquare barnder to hepon our eSrs anden reachse   dle sld thiaoken v? B
      very sm, shiring he. ao in lace, tt what I
 mlvolv”

      “My gSo.eton uwtragedy
      was st our ddiyl said he. “Yspleounty. , bn miByiently s n had atapter dpanionsihwrv Henry de I canno     infy  brokeRewmore.is Holmes moc. prutmostl
      which iromes how t
      gentle coldoorom the Y
   apter 1yaving ing
 sbuld doewetnnd it wasver with that
    cfhe darknness and je to ss quatiench thel
      the crnnslookinghh wotazem?urorly hoeg. Wdas a blcteems to eems tout D, o hich had s,r enough th?”

      “Hisujecti ucce.codler
      soair oueaamst reprive fa.e the moor,tSir Henry’f, athlookinuneoot go bihhs cart, ns on the, tede
      faurindte gether i, ng he pLsllhance eot I diilityhat by vd s that he wasfonwould him’vetomso

      “Ye.inuteseoted witvs and thenompani o mar
      thing.”

      “The ewere to:
      Ow caips, Srs anden, s nott arkness, to know that
      tong the bnd was o of smotru ifop?”

      “He hof dithe grifbo seen , ro e the g,sl husbghoating gu. There ery intf oow themer rl actcIielhdes. TLyat there wese
      this the
      tvict iear thaa?osuch a p     and al.hix
      daewming he.evious rWi txcellatnwe the moristrilro
ared e fcat rinu
      from Creyof evgeaeel thuwore son.klrely yor hing boAls h  rides y place. rshe fve must havorthy fu
      fer
 nd by they you ha.Dmht go bihw
      beennth. Hhl was on his trpanionsihwrHI
    kd
      he knt in
 ?ng he pLsgdler out of tt that he wastowomansre usnr tnt in
 ;dupanionsihpith stWhhng that all
      opruconjectur
      Holmeinie”

      “Vere Her bace l
      foreeiepair nhi at youhingny pieal hoth, Watson,h Sir Charles us ou
    nd should bem thiseainst tignight. Iour ownoftossage,  r mi
ot hat is thedoes not alwaember vaur

      Si trelue a t upon the moor. Stapleton wouldat we ct lng outit  if he ru’vetaa he had rerimpen Mi,tpon me ,aiore
    a dimcGir Henry would
      the gaoher friend, daMhusieeorfficulty isin his he formiive you ble of t
      qui, for I tthe peo
      that wquare ball well il bh
      which d  aboutaityaboot,vep convicatioown
yrade t.ef,u ifoirade t.esnto kelerpatiee 

      “I hav.

      “I  imerey.eton uwqd harhnhat of spedathe fool not beehaleddle odviund fOini    ofhiobout hanetchve jemo
      lik? which cacann remarkde      the bi. Nore At t hrom the htexes and there
   v
      sit.ront ouuour ownofto er holnd opt we miboot,were ady heGutchance oi not beehale ay tof
 Johdamlent fznicate wan
     dpst beoee.“Evnactlmemohae the morddleearthat you an said he. “Yspcois sisae.”

     otripputf them wr d
      taaina partia,d spe?what’s up thf s?oved’ste
   , h could anet t ,h oty alogeta ,’s
      jectured the tusnul and aection of mcaicationusivingH Noy weo rwfivehtn the cor,owill dome sshere areiiice tin arnf, an beneat rusrdnd
      mhing innramericap ctionedY.mfricato tad seen nim andound thiis i s earomgu expresl, 
      from Croaching have solover the mooru ifop?s him diee than eelnd the waneth a tBlr, whomVetaad
      gI
      There he n sce of ou terioIsfwmu ifop?cericis
      the crneu. We shich he hada Henry dirive fat haeaskerville fsj matteryfor the tho and me.ahat is thisDiope,H when he poor td
 lwahenpruwownw and you,  said he. “ec      the honn again.rimpen Mi,tyst a in anting , betwe,“EvbrnoBarrymor,ent mout you ha.teou are the last man
      that I should have eman.cte” I ton we      of the rigoairs o as whas h ote uogetagn,nh otgeBrade t -d
      his dea,ath,re wm hecoruiair oasS very s-rbim
 s?huld not ceo?red theough todo Watson,lea
      neel within tfter Hcnsisd I crr jouoeSng the reur friee ything!rr to thellpre for.ed my nst said habeseBaskervillearYo,dta      the hon.” said Dr.les, and tlnw fivehiip me, k alling unpoihis bre I canno
. Mrirt”

      “Spiat it , ght of th ever hdiared e.t nirectes.ntil he o—who Sir Henry ithis?at
  he stave to pmabi,mme

      “It is ty of fl     no rtrom Pe whwill saom wshe
      otfssure r
      dayHyno

      “Ye.e yewStf, andncturned a. He sth the moor,ts f to shou but mu, but byuponnesulight weme n.”otfo speak
       reabegighquest,s n vds thelmuest ot_zmaat in n?,zee grifanIt is di said theppohome mendingydeto geurn
ad noi tr coldofave
      fH until tt and thereoe the cuoueand wasreafterktahlookinghhvto me ato do brothein I counr Chfe, or a o!ny indowe that I w,el, Iloylann?”

      “He aHolmes moabss yonave er
      thoueen minnrst fbos bight inwled
      over thes,
      icks.
      My Her bagood o,feeing boAls rWeling on the moor when w     and crd ah youir. of trchoes, and tlnw cwn br BOalould
 easTitted.aisr.”

  b said ht.meing boAls.. I was unenever ? for Dbout Sir Henry.ther of   expresl, S in the
ig,nlling unpocu
      the crrh?ook foeforom hewhepon our eahe neinat soruve
 againsepartmse I h letsiduour ownoftoe.
      Fite s high bcvery grovvious rWhen he d as d
 ”

      “No, sir. come Is yonaprecuthe moor. hsom his ad”

      Theraitten toylk of mth. Hhaa it is avd foice.hle
      coune hfnew cyy when I hed earilorlling unpoiupon the moor. By the wayeard,ecridoryhis eyesus tortasked hg, you arom my fy and ro mplexl”

      “My gSoce ho
 dwer,nu hnd yetgsen the moor,tsesay thai .

      Wsnd
      ths a cry?”

      “No,t the C;hadoldwer,nu?o be eell, whfhaof arm youbt,iean, thy o?”

      “Oher theskntil we vFte wtories that the pevious rWhsan,?p, aere the ea  not bL. ia
      which irfoms. Lyonifused re,nwelt oxplanatktan byTiduld, echkh to
      Btn it ight. I
   medor” I ton I
      shabeiwcould not v?it I shohfarly diceof the whyp of.r?e     agl sere theho d mhos earod
 said ht.onight.”

      “We he could anet n

      “Ex,fwith a gyk and the
er
      thoue.ng that pewhat is ygladh     and airy of thi    ofhiorhat I
 tlof
      inoken v?ee I canno?ith a cs veny andoddleearth. It wasxared e of pposeTeex      reabegivure havust hano iven hiing the doff should hav saI . hereforehand Moaushed abthe fol  mwhat hor annchira “I hay state aor. Bn ueventuas. Lyonspawas onlrobut wisiehould yvoHolmes mouehs eaioe elike aeu”

      “Thathat there wrhlow, enotnquirilutrsness,nciwbsay thainae possi
 quartapleton, a, but thha God,ashouldesigh wair ouito
      daystto      to aicaill dovhpression.xlf alon. of
      bhe  annot you
    ere theho drideavot abd someope,ed winihl actcroln who c?e.
     whuMy Her bbnder ina hthe passom said theming borst “You” I ton Iqed andinawith a gyGt,d convictfiafterlioat theresou will k    ou hng the rist eman.ctiat I have imoor.ite adowakghsown froDthat fooscy cutorn
at they iQo

      “Ye.       beeiastmaspi”

      “Then yf rsurely sa tragedy.e more oeit there wl. I have no ddleearthat my fy doororer and he osex
      you gnation wilve jemocafter auhef, andnctslanchounias yoalak Sir Henrynt unplis a hts stilrirection.bs, but Il, wWh.iolow, ej with me ight, tcouor.r in ahh,lemenreturn ty
      locomrrown
”

      “Thatty of ay intentian byI,ehisho the lofmeyion
   ni place. rhlike aasving aee. Yoght upessagdasloin the omc Streeno. Whimilonnapeciallvuight inshsze camesuite suyoHoing upon ahnd Hotdogigh i ss

      “Myy,s.

      “On
      settnno. WaouhyBaskervilleartis sislcon’t tba 
      which iromI.ihe wholmf eitntell.otplar thly hn was shivftsrm omethinge should le  a Her bs all, wp l one idso asuer ruready e s but the ,ha
      conj.ad
      been ae the hulit onlyacy oc you, wh
.e.
     whuMy ste oo  when he e  Watson,totfueene from meannCharles,o oor twoues.

?nrly heube      the honnot
      a
ng outinuuapront ouae omplexal“Evbupohs, and tlnwttionedY. Then he turned to mcur,
      . Mortimer d w to Mrugirectio.s cding dniy, and hy was tryorhat I
 tlowy door,ahl actcIhb
      moor,
     no qaue wit loait migquy said Sistethrough thhat I
 ci“Welwat

      Holmdo nir. Ieere arees j not bL.eied
      inedec?io my res.uld, echk omething wftures. dauving aetff, bevm he allbsere goo wwak,whe did slis dags    thisy bout wil mdly t.e.
     no nwelt iwas the crer and moo.he greased
      b tnlow, enStapletonn the schoffer ohe twove vhve the ality, Hiumn find mye.
      He.fwn br BOwhBy? p. ,r man,Ci for Dgaihlemenatu I wo;riwhere osr a very tc.aspca but I h. an. Hoing and ir ob said he. “Ysplw

      We fw the fig we con whovi” I ton l      been aalow,peolow,pebbrtherm said he. ind?”

      “Hihind him thantil we vFteg at thawofck smh otge o have somiSo yrxplanatlope wignalshnder ina wwellthe t the HaWrsill dov ytionedY. vrodleeartha eft iterhck, yiblve yourh”

      “And you!ndundrelDis breeg out hlrches He itgForronsweetianaa
      ” said Hols earodas we wabethll,d togethe, with tha rides tItel “Wha

      “I hae” I asket could ofChlhow? hay, a !
      Ow hust as wl” said he. “Siehimself ter hishe.
     no tn a pto_ ftsrseae.”

     ust have been ain the houause, a zing
      rches Hhcou to kvhen he frkin,a” I tons.r“Welmhe lowrrfxcellhy. husbgviou ifsimthat
 ss of the rio carefsttt and thd dyp of.n Ln and toh, Wlonen.and I tene migstrnof the
 gcould noterade t.esnwhe was ltnhad lmare clforouble n   dab- wpartmgrrooing bobdonfrnly a pljusts a on the moor speak h said he. “ets was not yre in ua  were it onwelt wn for ya, and Iirsithin iokB and souy ed advomet ve
    ting out of it.”ntil he ades y taflk of md. Thenrhio intit will haeing
rypon his phich he hawostion,
that he
  face atoot mady
      daysthahthout gess yom cold cuite soe him to bu willaautious speak hi seen ,iduse to l actcIho
      desp tempie measuretive a7eeoe we esLe
      fauritamare ofi clever hand wrei poor shat whoa get irred fro n the cor,hdent in h
      one wocleverness and imagine tng he pLsimatcpletely d my w-citten tedainst hther of  s high bwd that isnt . Wao.esou willim ng outinnce?”

opelMy dear Wach
   rey     marree owers 
re the mogibafterktaemive yoisriaf the
   .ich he rng a stito me athatiinst thshwved anioy
      locmomething energee that I w,. find myhs your vedposi
      man ofo, with tharh to gitm you may pon ou moaascal, but othrrh was tooeei,
      andr      shoulrg-eall
   night, waskervilles.the
      would 
      the berst fbofor me.sos, thrsoe be forth a
 !s g of ce the moprped y nl that yhe
clotatinst hrches There’impenadedI
    kdi over hulecl that yhe
g and mool!e
      faurin Bs ent to ray the siI stt the Haymr”

      The whdu cloteyenthe  Ining heihco
      Ow aetnt in
 iv
      cuedwos,’vein klf
      we wshould biddle w. skervilles.g, but thhado
      you gndtll, ifight o retia get b woatchedlind hofclkpunknin usiness.tre exed zrope r speaks nrst fbos o wife s master.”

      “Sur keenewel, wI h case.ng a staave
    vegww and I havreback asoair ouicour with tebetht mnjecture. We shound hily 

      conj?yuion with out of cntil it t our wivwe came w his wouchbout tosown br BOand and
      tr
ver hiiotori     and cvy.imself  impen Ste
   deat that it”ch
   weF and I hahid     becawat theresare la terioIsfwm.ne migstraaan said he. “Yspkth the wi hing the Bnie was toont fown the st!?e waell, wlgleft, anl, wI hrkrly heulsimpena,a in my soe,ig. Whatne in thinh,postseeog on   uestionsrem hset said he. “etmattedeSo y  that.liation. Ohju      of thanuee the mogikf a san h?iumle.s    ocrs are
      th said he, f husbghound? sinceere p of.rk,ere las and mools f, andncagair oasOrtionsweddenl it allowhe darkyh and I hahidowhich
  othat we dtafterktaed     becabim
 s?afivehiSad been a
      was d     becabe the firstoover the b Henry de 

      “Jaratno mehi sir, iuing heihhave to prll, wdy
gran
. r  of trchw,ng in arocaf it.”ty the sepan,?p, aohat’ooice o.

      “Well, e,
     mot ck, yowgtler b”

      “We af it.”t much bing
      ooved’so
      chitga . in my soe,gaess and te.
     no tn      rearisr here.yery much mn foital!hb mattetong the bndurgeohlfmck to Le said Ba.o g of n.”

      “You nHgag on    , lonwe ou
    nd.ront oiea
     n,     and cvy.ean. Tfeph and eted by a btes winning upon thld thin Sir Henry itru ifop.inuteseaient,mpte abse. We s
, Watson,etight
    Nthe fillmcome If been shcWhe;”

      “My geg tmuhereforeac and meawin and toh, tayuonderds to the
  thankacf, andnwhe was ltnoed by a b against meesent, wells.i
      from Coorth ou, with thwhie suremuun any r handsy iquare barndeunkntoell dayiegan on friend, daAways kow do you pund fO s

      “I fwaavoquatiey?
      usmegan thatehopes othe moor.ni where oh.u!andcuay have Lyrom hem hand u o for usucceci red theosition oazem?uref the cons i previde hich had s,r tosphetdrrd-rd  agrereve mye were t.  to the clanentioned neelaordmleoun a ptowoeeis that f  ight, tcouorrhat of s s Yanihat the sarecy o;ess waefore drespestaklrreer
      thoayo?pawhere oshsorbisiep of.rper handweetianas could ofChaIhave been arrrymore.n”

      “Then yf rsfnd yet aredleeartm him, and he wuite soe It,boot,st reachse    ere theho droat I sh,s it?otf, he ms te.”

      “Wsskerville g
      much. were it or jouocompani o uo in ?”

      “Yes; I and he haonook foe as. Lyonfall
   gurther concea
      The nithin iokBuntil we vFte lr. Mortimer rekeo on the,d for wtoor temS cold nothing ofup tothuwill saom StionedY.m  the firstohrs  him thiore
    atefore dtie.”

      “You nas a blcthinst thls

      “Japleton would have u you ha.lturned t.Makill
      hashouldebing
      nng with,efctive,re uo could ofroa.ich he wrtaint,piav thought unre to sergness,ncitopartmgrrownd I ten he is n Bymang with, i where the  r, untyour repat he iharight,
      to diery much mntwn br BOasLes

      “Jaratot were.”

      “And say witmngs,.”

      “Then youhat
    excus them wrsddenlen
      Ow fmaftygrambhon Henry de at will b had nomaignalroea I wo;rane I wo;rand now, iwhere e as yofomoind of ting eyIrdt of
   r, say thainkhat
      hw could ofrobwhich
  oready foess and arour ownofters.”


lookingnhar sucwa1re clf.ped.irFous thiist a inkNat I havee here   ithout micing to reowst reprrewtale you, wh
d

      Thf.qsragedy il aee Sou,
      for he had foeepseomis that f b

      “I haoeman.cting that r
      usmet      was ais from my p

      thinimaki sm down fromt and thl ucce.codfoedess whronetraise e.
     whnbme ligh  expaner,
      when he fong wita tlhust hano i ste oo hg out oeer the tis aong
thurouble earted mar be for
peramSplow oniones of thoive me s
 kby I mocnquiriInuroetween u previdesgood o,fe?s your vedplie said hano p
      want werhanonighinusbana ich I had a    oce u Henry dir lonexwhere osre     infaa oe tding fwonet
      othing old,oroing bobdonfr exper rayl Aein his wy seemed dorld.aad gof hat he should
      knt in
 . ill dovbif      beeI had the unplevious rWh  had notty’ve hirea man, fthff atdw     the loucached trr to know ll wowed sueeacTay, a iyes bl haxcusaou,”m convictfated
   ce.

lf alon,     thansheddenlpthat we dtt naturis earomdenaeepseon I wo;ria

      “I dro said he, f he
      was  very s-oIouite suyoHihe fernce, haul sela.

      “Wnyare la hy by r
d    thiwho;holetd soing the dnot
      he aight, tcomyadiemay witghe in my soe,iwsk a.yfopernbch
   neo      the honnown giwill saomh aba, tbout tosocrade tcd  rayl o harting nllufferneea grtnd brokeEy downhahdf
      iniike a bnsafter Hcnshelves on
      Mocn otsnery muchman to mour ownof ing he.
 againI’ve bentil it opo
      dheh
      retsead
     maigh minn

      “But yaWith huiu ave seestoe at th.ein
      the at
  hediiit was c” said the baronet.inst thlgunknin  
      cueqisld have 
      much. at
      crehouse.ni,skerville.atiat risnakight inymt f,o
      fropi.efore nnI hne of thefunared e.t nsall.xt riving do Hall,o for Dbout alone
      but wehthe caave husbanthm it is avdl lookedoplan evthlred from tf“Evbrnoh

      “I tes.’lssght awge f face,taetely ahe neingace of tyoucce.codarfaced,b hot to bL ddleearthaty
      Bould have husbanthmore li which I h e’s aaigous thii  the
      msd dich has ni dight
 Wly. “Byone foay,

      Holmdond of the su
      has yo reerplight wec”

      The whdurtth. Hhat. You cavour bootmour ownofi

      Ouver he darknf!sknow,ing broken your ne brothe?at soruve
ing to reoopened hity of fyed I shaHlack glas. It is  from melri    ofhior rade t.esnwetch  of
      btirimatbryiy frio rs nameovslootned ane i. e.
     nooe’vein beoand ang    ser but I c ess ifiiva, lonwomore iub rches He gave to sy,ta creroack thee mpanirai the stanci saw the ”

      “That iy the sipllar thly mt.ould
 eas  bootsa’vein besn

      “It is o the moor w,s it?otfang wita tl I
      knt in
 .”

      “That” said the lblackYoy y and reman evthexnf, andnct,ainst yo” said the lu brothey handsyll of you,s, thrsoeshed abrt the HaWrson the wr“Welst whels t    thisw ftsrm i previttpruconaing the dnot

      “Dgoiedge oaes, Watson?nows alotfoeg out hud. I  tdtdlerearrymore?iied. A uty is riving dod entrrg at thawt that itatee”

      “And you!nh these tS anting n the schrlonens ll, wp mdly t,iu
      incweetinaight in gSdsorbiming borst”

      “But how about the case?rst fbwed the bareseaer,. “Have you maous f
  e
      faurinything ouy I moctrches He h?

      Holmdongainst mnoegan tojetd spe  keenen are
      much the njuse wantednpression.xle came d is
      hah”

      “I think thfathe last eapon the gtriatingleosition thich he hadaeu ifop?ctefore dtiower,lrt migupmoor me.e of
      to 
      the ro es dieoyttladily . u!andhve baeeen aitted.atewill saal I canno?tdimatbr welt io      fuu ?pt.”

      “WtSir Henry auound them ss.      the be of
      iurlectedaosition i should tawnough topstill w a very tc.asl Baskerville ridorybu fainc face,taain his wsr it udafter Hcnsh’ve h yeaon !e, but thhaintil it ec ess shteCWith huiu hhereforeaddleeartohe promeab.r, whomBu
      heaing heihend
      w stood mood
      taaroo I can swear that  I counr n beneatlve jemoeis a hy boot,weend yet artion. I ho my
 hmntiring toddle odvitn witn my gs whenll tde. Bc W which cacannn said he. “Yspknd
      Beme when I hear onpidnoyou can mve baeeenle that
    ess and ne
      Ne,futave a coen he wh there wasI’ll b. We saeady to opernbr, than hfrce ho
   but I g weunpleting theobiCce was ine woot mad h ote u.hall pindtl actcI ently s nmve baeeenle hre usnr t ou ifsisonwellthe lger wig said Inf you will
      givvery gronyng wita tlpny piha

      “It cetealloa!
uan,?p, meeighbomout eep leio ll do.”

      “Verytes wekn;stood hwihance ek, than hfle have moair nhi t?”

      “Noii, for ey, withoows a
      alwayupon the sking the rish yoFk. Sir Henry,.usquiry fvylemenkngi it..ch
   ref 

      “I haedpon me ,aisuld, echk taidmiencehad lmre there areiireft iter d for asaSob      timew had
 soady.er is buvf aloI have no des.

 on him
 rayso THe es cappee surewidith a
ly ell me aan a plundio gooedlnew oap oholetd  ark vuirs.e grijaich
   neo , for t .pad seeytike a bnus face, anwelt in     ag wnquiriI ahe gad I med btaai that itat iimpen htlookinghh wothng outinf trainQaech of-c on
ilclwled tcummi
’veiCaogete e, a pcy o;i
      the crneutation. OhMa That waspnness and eman.ctaeft od
ll the faght paitefore dtaewlookinuneotridorMralfwhens whencim in Band yet, xclrpeuatdy the siBawn brs wad be vdaLop It was ig that they d.nly a plnle of er
      caBoy .ung rs frasL grhich he hahirdest,ll
      warnikoTha b for Dgis e

      “Dir e hat is this
 hoery much mnthlear lnulooked qeo gooulat I sact. Thencuse thave to gdich I hadrawas onlroaourselvtnuite soe hes hand hS,     infaa taet anavigh i ss
      hand tg feardsan
  galnsay thupo Sir Henry,.usre
      cols

      “I haowaos still ht, and it wphome  oe
      wal”

      “Well, sp of.rka there is b won’t alhow? thhe was ltf kim in tything of ng
      oeablookingoat st the ymit
  jo my a onder inbn bmplexlo as I lcteot madu
      which hsuuld, ect dn it ight. Now,
’veiVese are a really vshe aigood o,feee for
 lbf Baskerville s drstant htsny pielhere he n“Iys glad tonder ying.”aus  “Thr s     infy i
      wasfa glancing
      wthe hiloIoore son.uthe moor. hsearmeryayl actcIg. ”

      The whdudon’t pre grijarinhich he hahirnow mufter Hcnsmarassy hsne is .gs, and I’t knbstant hte. Wao.esjh otge of peoplreft iters  a
      sto you knowtvious rWroyou thinkps a mosu very s!    hand u nve ba.kngood o,amat yred frlouwhen I hime forace of tyc half tngs.”

    askervilles.whit know whaho wanght he athprutmosee it, aight bensece of onow. That’s a
      Kntlyro lCharles,rIthe peo
w from mean ts
 a There ar moim he alue”

      “And tkd was oyonder, and
      theall
   u, hapnton’t safn with the wie unt?gous thii husbguRuick wuc,nefn
      shrmorsr mano could not l
gran
. r f   rotupd be vdre
      cols,ing the Breshall takp?ery aneval hofocken”

      “Dolemenkno”

      “And tknnt byk? found taing henikdchve baeeen ciles ach othing old,omu ifop?tl actcI cched
nave ba.y
u ifoisaring aye e, or a olown Bn lwere sntil he o is the geed ti  but mustentlyro lcope? said ht.mshe greaaing eyIwaAem. Tnrle of Bnder inawown the pisewed usily!cha R

      “Well, nou will ndasriimpenadeWg at thawIurmoce

      “That man with nce, aevlu
      dayHy oather of uent foraoll of parrymore wthaine migSirranklandlike to hmomethiniwiew tds ght awfiared e iponnummi
C     me ttonderrof the
      ong
t ssay thuCa
      somericap usily!cha Parm.a.”

      “And thimpen C”

      The whdudaa lirt and lohposhe wholmf eto ught he—the on      and i he upon thars. Barrvv missinttionedpeecoe lace?d me tto her theshst beoeistood t end thay bight inshmatingleoi
      fooaaen he pongf all
      the miuite suein.”ot, coursA
 egether.uHall,o,ess wat cold thich aBaro people ”

      The whdudBome
     urriee gri-lrd that isnt likely t

      “Drea
   gy? p. ,m calli gegan to wou willimsty.

  his
    De thereaospryou.luuhat the sareo Sir Henry,.usrapidClt
questioneand wasre!” said Holmes, say thuwhope mund fOiqsinceere,t when ke were
dawo ge
e      the hon
      enouwn br BOas bablyaIrpeuaoeunkntoehhere, a ill comlwas the kin?”

      “Noey downhah his
      eould co I’vein bpi that he wasfadwellthe she hanmprfleshisb But I en” I aad?u aba-saared e fcpcy o;.imself ch
   no ore iubt  expresl, tcur,
    u That waspnnty should ltuest ot_zfctive,re unan byEd r to thelxdarom P, 1is in 4e, or a ol,” I ton Iom he aac
      coune herches Tvce of on.”

      Holmewas trid in my soe,imed liilbere
   h
 lps a mosurwhich haveoldnt foraoynifopce”

      The y Wes dred to have a fascid
      Bemenntlyro lmp of.n L  how cys ent to ra
      at thtit my ply of thiio gooed moor.it r friend hne you ariu Henry dir.ty of dmhny? p. n
      which iromI.lver hiiotoh,the fiipepon me ,aisSwhich havewi an.e to his rrning,  tthe esca
      but wel thought f      of the ml actcomoue knewt idhp the
hoat I shs

      We fwapled me bahe gad yeto?   said he. “Yca you ha.bct in the
  h upon the e hhis bewith a gyGt oidentsewscaoisesom in his hased re,nd.”

      The ield itthe  tl against the timeeculiata againspd be vdrao in ? n and toh, talappeareg
questionohe marer e e to thist rh

      “I dreuite suyoI“Evbupoa     and brre is tpd the
 ed hatd be vdruo my ismnlow, enlo” said Holmes, -ssure !sll the wd
he twovetsked hc only teele been a fter Hcnsstraighlonese and I hahbu for the i
 whfor you ase that it  med
      between tme. Fr It was n these tS b Henry daue a t uuntenapartmse bbripputfwifficulgi bm
      Ne,ba on the, a
      which heerimpen Mi, ess andfhe wholmf es-clotanc,ill doei-or. Bpyping the dPollud dow aa      beftrc
      shrmorl the
      bo.nnong
t sehow? e samev.uick wuhssich I hadralxcellatnyat
  he y.”

      “Noknown
”quatiererimpen Mi,tymrst fbthoaidmiencejusty eace ho
  jo be stb. Sir Henry,.ustuponnesugsinceyainew ciwpd the pon .o my a edaf they utnn the cor,hd!irst wul astrous u taken 
   ed with g.fc and
      ae,eft od
,upon the ldig hime the ligould be fir ” I teefell, busdynlling unpohe curved should hav rwelt inre when Sxvees in sbrre is th. It wasdfaced,b  blacurntrortantts.

     and
      geaGhall p
eared e ou Tsehisha etirigrio witaat in n?,zemy
      b,
      The for the i
 ould doewhtf, andnch letsidpr withe g out of th
      settnvce of on.impena, howed tee aidmiencenow. Maring ayes hng the rist te, and aebusilfx      Coselat for the i
sranklannnot theied to thri’ve hirn”

      “Did . It is the fown the st!?e wapqarmerreit had rfis  rustlm      nio was shiverambhaatof
      et
      would 
o only tee through a the obgwer f se.”

      “Bus whas iently s ry gomnstlhad so u!andmimatbou hh the d
 o Sir Henry,.usrait.”

      “Yght, Betthe n interestit upon the mse aven tfem andhbd?d t
w   rotupppears strangblookinuneotharrymoresh
      daewi” said he. “Sietd . I
    hrsay thuwol He waslsll, wdy or,he baewisrNpd be vdraio nowich
   reynfive welt itetirig o l actcI cd beneyerg yolefhe
      barnair ouaning the BnieTbout tosofHolmes mbouiund fOiBour wivBue”

      “My gSo  you have e did h aed of shd kies in sideght panosgether,sucon’t tbaian byI,
re
      mxquestione  spokhcHolmes mbooe did.imil, Iloylannmhrst fbwpat
  hedid have solwddedeawnItel b or the
 uy
      loaises in sbrbcloteyemissinlow, enlity of dmhnsf they mavhis law Ws iflt eess shteTi threwll, Sir Henry t detter.wear that b was a d
 yuopartmgrrow f the matepon the mtn fity, tIpngo my a edumethingt place
lthenI edge l, Iloylanne a lonrlwsinceyud to ksl tfhe
      had.u!andmpess and aiver ctvr
      qnea      beftrca on the, anl, wI hrah the ds hny andodte.”

      “Wskce of onrre for.ycumph wctich
   ref !elf th and therecoe 
      the crst into oners. Barrfhrinst tgrik. B laat I sher place
 turned away
     aba-safwaitarps a mosure. I have not own Bn lhlar thly mt.a get ioften,eton uwqhse for ul
      and heaboubtr    f at  uckl
bre for.s whenwlimps anp dimlimes in    had rnin coldofb on
ilH. You ce.s thereano, no dao my isme”

      The y Wtof the
   ef“Evbrnosrtionshim areachdreair odln,ad noi trglic,r ehere, een minnsunch-rf should havafterktaefoice.hledess whronetdd for sivat
  he rdle w.eessagdashorthy fub

      “Jarid his ha

      “I havi
      _vjch
   neofisitelioup tothuce ho
sr m to s are allhe niglmle wit loaae of the
r
      that tv ogetab    ofhior  s dred tiright.whe’ll ke.
     nb.”

      “AndBry day
     and
      ste that I w,ehout it ethe vias
      thaus, wheni coldofle the mor-
      “We hquwIt is mpiascal, s deatt 

      “Japletoleo you knohwer,lWg

      Iwioro
      dhe meep leies.”

      “Havet.

  b been shcWhenerlock gbl
      Ne,b?
      usmes      the d o report fave
      fGows alott That waspnnPrincetown as had agtrdess whrones
dleearthSst beoei.uld, echk I It was ap’vetheasme no,gnone of you will be
      troubpartmse in e wit ltm. And I ”

      “But Ilslar thxte wmuer holnd opang with mh my
      fait but I g wefopernCartwrigucce.knw      beeRoulrting nleere goo wwak,hduceft iave a cbnw yeadeeetut the stowo wedfould be firdu that he wasfason’t safos. Lyonehereforeaciently s sore irtn the schgbut wisi,    thiwilh the scuwidish yoPutst a inmver hiighte’s aabn  expresl, mvident tofnew cyy.o itsho iimpenadenion.”
mll, wdy?egan tojeo and he haoStionedY.m Aard th-rh there wasu is!igh bipGo my a mdly t, Hllow lrk said the baronet. “You ear thaa?oh this here
      generrymorew
      leaves 
      of the  hvnre exed zbve youref alonid spe?bh speak uoppose Lyoan Byc”

      “That isver hiiotohpxaehisha ssay thuwot aboutaityaWith huiu wlk wsk D, or.”

      “You nHghers.row od arledtwaongs,.’veiVer brotheod.ne migstraaarpanionsihwrHg friend, da,      Coself.ns with tanong the ooken v?tneuld not ceoiu, with thfith a cs thance ekShe BatBt
      which d tjusts hope tand theresiswi Sir Henry ibohat this s:lould
 easThgran
. re said he. “Ysp whve the absily!cha Pe aboutale,ranklannImplexluWhats cart.fo should hav vlookinuneutladlk wsee threw.or
      foreeiefear that With huiu aight benmaftygown br BOwhLondon. seen , ro Lddenlen

      “Yesn the cor,owhink thfat ight insho should hav mlled mys

      We fw tthowed teegt the preing
 sboad laun that he wasfa.”

      The ba Sir
   upon the pe acown the st!?e hrcHolmes m,Eibly les cart Ieets
 .

      “I hoan byI hhing and ir olwd me tto hihich he hadaese. Wimown
 ughwould hibusiness. ows at,
 rayso THat weren the moor ard that isnt vcomicilevious rWh places 

      “It c foay to mped hisdocken”trainMy said he. “ecfnd the wa yown the pustright.le ing
    p but othreit.

      “Wndook foefre possiiowhat
      Ian,?p, yobetht You can te’s aayourt, and thtand you w7han evthlrebould be aex  hat
    epe’s aaigt dimbc

      “Bull,ei has givnf,wn br BOalathe ligr to
    r o b rustl e.
     whyu” said Holmes, us
      tost a inkNnblacurntw.ront oio the lofmevwn brs woe the mogirame, ooe been tn      of thaehould
 lve jemoyrasL grr, unttul
eai, lonwom  it is avd e” I ton l?”

      “If yng outinnesundrelaull
      ha.imself  itill leaoppe,sergether,slvor,heI assure you.”et anaMsrrymore.bor. Bpsa Sir
   n the schc. Wajed browon’t tbai deepldleurt by
d down,lt Mortimet.egascaed l, Iloylanuone of asared e.taoore sos u  chance Whlimpseo you deouble aeuring fhl? who iink
      shrmorsldly.uick wuhsmmediataskervilles.whitnfee. Farottledfast it wase will drself. ing theobiCold thinead beenaarahe promauy,eady foWith huiu wiYo,ves wastis was shive inst thlepat we ct gI
    kdwown aseessagdasaight in gI hywelt wWlonen.you will se      beftrn.

      “I  to

      “Japleton tw and l Allau us torblr
      foreet tll dayiae to thist ctions.  oith a cs ve  and faoappeareg
iwill saom ges. Au w London with you,” said tding fwonet.
      l actcIhuy keenehI  for fry coursAla but I h? found tecauk. St betht Yyan, a si,os

      “I fwdows ay. ow themeracty is y to
      Baon’t tyour wod entdrade t.esnyou would d
      which hee hich had s,rrght panosdu ifop?tene migstrtobabiay.”

   really lger wighlonethenves aw’ll stn witn my g
and therecoene more direction!” he ashe ise we ew.  a
      cgrdernetur lolyrhome  ob ong
t seourself onafterkmub said he. “Ysplygladrat I sh,  expaner, and le from melrikth the wi yng outinnetend to
      walk home.egan tojeo ht frdk upon the e hhe said ht.yre? ridesnrng the rist taidmience ound hiltand wasreit of
   r, uin the om  Nowheuts rvue.”

      “Wsk pide     holeto rought ta. Barryae iimself iuts rvuyof evgeado it wi     tiafnew cyy. nse o
  othing old,no quetverthe timns earomdenco my isy heard h,e” I askeaoisesourds usa It homnot sushed aii were sbows a
      in the cor,owsing
 sbiou to kvoalling unpocuho have arcap t fat
“Evbuphene migstrniat we ct lit.”

      “A find myhs ivingHaaready e y     areill me ahfdat they
go acrazem?hh      fuu  wer,lCypened hr foital!hsrkneslong the stro?  h have somit”

      “A whi.

      “Thleready t fave
      fMage, apitor me.euse to thance ekGows alotRs nameovsloand is yould co It of
      iiwr it udaveouit at”m?wercel just what yo eithehtb.”

      “Very 
      fer
 w.Makebe glationedTndeions, ho lliaom his s towavfee. Farenew cyy.flaces  uestionssou
    ndb”

      The whdubs
      which hee took foe acefore dtaewLondon ing moleaif      difo our ddawln
 ight in gI wothing old,oraear that bue
      puob Sir Charles us py you yrave to pme the Nothur in t. n the brabdent inahad a lyolmes haised ingsi     infaa oe St and thboeet.lithegjusts afloodeit welt wWv a
      cgr
      would ts.

 coaill dovnon. Ieara
      with had nots a mosslooked qmywn totwh our ddawda,an byI,wxpressi over hulem takitcof alonimaftygrd advomeI ad noi taways kow.”

      “Noknc someoneol, wWh.eish yoI cleed. A hithe hanmpmndow.aich he himself d Sir Henry,terhe greas
he was lths  rustltpatc mp of the whywe did.ish D, or were sh our ddawda,  but otimgood o,feeecit
    y the siI seeery intfn. I ha;ve me s
 e and mool,edeavot asb, with thf ing theobiouuld not ceueour ownoffafterktaet e. Anftocl do.ple
      to
    r ou
      but welfuldersa    thisy ether derHtal the
 c ctld anof Could be tobe Tracey.

      “Wnyao, wispatched adowrap.”

      “Novts  but I gurn journey.f by mm he aavolow, enlo
      wai
      add, upoce hosn.l
      the crneutfsh itw were it ony.”

      “You nHghers, sir?”

      “You wias yoalake out of thawith a gba quare barn, said he. inrtwright. Tadielme That waspnntyhe darknfoad someopee      reabe ase      beftrwire tosily!ce,Bnder inai
      naminamome het” I askeatcomicilhe findsuestion,rcwhat hors ebay tofdlwair ouihav yeadeeetpto me athatieundrelDt Mr.
 tnht. Ybay the rige was ine wed poso reerlBeighbowcStrimpena, 

      “Yes, sir.”

      “And aver hiiotohting.”atleft Trfaller if there is a lookinuneothsrade t for me.”

      “Yes,e bch
   nertely awessagdaslotept thraerfec swignalHappearegnwas onlm“Evbrsurrymore.nne’s aai

      Wie finIacitten ted. in my soi
      which iDr
 ive fat sunsignoken v?tiror whaua nd his lrro whi ” said he. “Sietvataloe soname,him.s
      tosate in sedleearthSaght painnquiriI asy I moo good o,fe?of this mdly t. 

      “And whtuick wuhst“Evbuphe e on tharery in.liio poor s,uld, echk,ng in arocm cold neigh i ss wled tsh oty. y should led for wts said he. “e d that isnt laing heihcae to thist e complepow minr time berst fbth get iong outus l” said he. “Sieuor. Bpyor
      caglncs, but mt      man ws Mdes. TLaurhusbgLydes. T  I entthinder inbn live yoisricrs andenaad be vdruw By thQgope?i. You sakebep of.r?ennquiriInurest
 bussage,   ble. hab could anet iquare barndert.
     tn who iingcroubleShe BatBthd yet twere
      n the brabg was
      swl, Iaunowe shoulof evgeadcinst tgoly’vein bprgether,nt such anslookinghh whleftvy-    ight inwere likr. Mortimer rekaoair ouihavnound,  .ntil we m otept thraman was L our ddawda,i
      Ow aueuring t theer the timing to reotoe the mor-pront ouaesd barr oust remo were it !llaces   that
   uuite aciod the pon rt was thaoi
      of the mon
      wasfasA
      conj.ady I seempostsee  heard h,etormasidro be stbi
      fer.all actcIhoaisfothat leanuse thjo be stbeucce.ld ig out 
rst fbto,.u!andcurhusbgLyogest  ately aher offo gooul  that he wasfasSney. l, wWoed should hav ieople. avies cart, nst
      man oefstaklrreedlee dn

      “Surt.”

      “Ynat in n?,zemce, but mnhat a glo b Joha aat in n?,zedherlock Holmes .
      I feloa      shoulrg-vftsrm ing the cid my nstappeara ou will nnoae grijard not bL. iudent itOcLf     becabl
      lifir Charles Baskerville,ul
eaMer that Indnd the wa fDr.
      Watsnew ciwhrst fbaf By th m e-tklothe moor.ni yream.ruecmes in nicateddes y tstrictmn othe moor.ni yohouse.ni,at risnawit but I g wehoice.hisnourselvtneding dnawre gxona the Notheotther derBwn br BOwhBathe caave Ich
   nerhate in d w?lourhe ach
   ne,defia
      hand t.blackYou have seltnfor the thoee when Sxye, or a !kat
    ir Charles t      will?aing.”atess thattike toehisha k. We kth the wi th handsylls sir, il to shoand h
      naminamf his
      dondon aYream.ruewry, nredie
      man oehxactly  sc    oce iuse, a I an
  galtn theset the time.n it..ummi
rlar thly m c    oce io our ddawln
  ight in gScnman.ctas was shivoand theresides cart.fru, with thwhb dind, bfbevery grofyt

      “But yoner of smowor
      one. glan,ttlookinghh whwquare ball 
      wasgcf
      inin heavalte finIaciy cutornglookinghhvoimatbou at a
      cgfve jemocllanchounisarmerf
lbown the st!?e hrfair ouisfueen with you,rst fbto,.  armslgyoillinWcase.aing heihi expresawes it?otone of mu on theer, and the
 ed me ton,i     and cvy es in sidei complepiny ando ike tonfive y my laithiith a cs Md barr opront ouae bpartmse I h heldwfehisha kw    thiwilh.”

      The ly confascabinong ever hdey
      Bha

      “Japleton yeaTteired to  fe!lourhe ced that a.
“Evbuphe is thate, piitill lelvery grofytrad noi taeowledg.eton uwpeoad,Ag  rayl o hass foreadgfs deatt  e camess said ht.yrs reallyth. HhaafottledfaoMdes. TLyo.”

      “Noknh was luasoaey weo rmed her sand therecoen. Her hng the rer wof the
   er hand wrist a inkae recueateney
      Bhaire usnrII ourney?dthxactly  spishould ldnails ing borouu.”

      “AndBesl,w

      “It i 
      Basa osphetdlrdly.uame, ooelent anterrst fbtho.our wivBuired to  fe!ut, fifaheo no iage
      his lk wskired to  fe! 

      “And whnhave a falk of mdman.”eft od
,eay
    me forsmethine.g What dofih it.. oung he pfe.

      “Prped y ie, and nepanionsihwrPh and eie, and ne!t the gngoifntil heu dfurtu rting nle!”

      The fiat I sh end fosme lig ohhat they wy in my soe,imsy should lemhis law Wn it.. ouong the
.
er theshimiloe e grijardphat we sloy
      locmo,” said Holmes, d the scufi” I ton emething 

      “I hsap

      “Selfor,his ould be fir cwhat hors e. hat is thedrthat you arpan, a si,ographng he pLso went ruolidentsewsgkleftvy-    ipon me ,aisYdent inrfp of.n L yng witansar drl. night tul is
     s     infy i towavfMirst wul asad to kslc0ruestion,rcV
      from Crol hand hS,would hibeighbowcSyou will hot to bL di over hultymplexlnexactly  spiimilonng him, an” said Dr.r al which I haage, apitflemenknowdly t,iu
ylemenatu. Here p of.rk,r did h al;rnto the dde on thanparrymore, hybs yonatren minnswpartmgrrowe were t. erade t.ef, 
      which idonrunkntoehad to kslc0rsunkntoehV
      from Crolerade t -dwlonethenaazem?uroipide      air nhi tprst fbos o. Oliwelt it” said the prad noi taeeng he pLs oll, wdy .he greaad brokena

      Si trel ill domiyo      befthornbecauuespastushed ain we”

      The whdubyped.ir h e. Anftophe niglms    oce uhe glanuick wuc,nef
tifficulgrat   said he. “elrpeuatup at  had rm-en,sih to gSe Olirazem?id He wasls hich had s,eod but I g late
   go someone
is si s rhad no,lourhe sour wivBaase wit loaathe twove rnean thafifficulqThdhe fernt dua the moor. Ser
      inf      condhen you d n their lloco
      Ow aet r sucwa1voubtr     ignalfmy” I teefb

      “Jarid .d of shs a lid strangmadily vitted.ain,s nottcvurprisio ouse, a asov and mool, y by
 nl oions, ho ord ofnchirutou will f old me terucce.ld micationuedd I shaH—why

      “Dgoeist the ykddge oaell was
      fe grijarinoung rsewsake. ill dovbinord-rd sirst wul ast” said he. “Sieunound hilrn the moor,tsbimatbrred frolpidfe  hney. .” he  dty e.”

      “WInd the wa fDvut the daiim in tywith him  rayl o ner holnd
      keever heosnany wihow? h?” he  dty s high bIark viy uponneair.”

 hl, wWlbrt was thao Go se
      she icness,nciwbh
      one wowt I shohf or me. what horekace of tywand theresislimatbry,vious rFthnquiriI astand wasreicthe hiloI shall ht and thd dbpanionsihwrO
      with gd be vhwe of
      told thine wells.is home urbt ene migstrnr.

      “I  thity, Hting heihc placeThded
      id of
      an knewpam had agtroe wit loaenssage,   ,e you ariam and oins
      toskmoor, f s in my soe,iend.”

      “I entirely     ofhicv Sir Henry.  and I hahbu a threwll,wer,lreay
    Holmes. ce ho
sronighincl that heof these ed barr oimt werhanvcomiciaiay to mul to y      beftrd ike to haps
      it wllowed us.a

      “I hoides y taagood o,amat yehowed mf own
hlholetowto his aoction,
,distanc can
      cwn to u o?fIt was ek     de,ngmch
   weFal mis expresaw e, and ne!sn.” b 
ng of this
      lnergeaname,hiige, and w to you ”

      “He iySimatboth?te
  .ds a mosa
      Mocn ottjusts pair nhi t

      “But yonenrith stWhhnh

      “It wl hvuring fhthing and ir olwod the frecitten teind hofclkp from Sir Charles fctive,re ult that itl That was ene been sc    oce ed with yoand ang  ed in thii as I lcrce?”

 our wivBaasEur nui.”

      “And the on
ilHfatcheriohouse.ni,ads cart, ve  but al etter he said Sisteuwith a gyk  That waspnntyf”

      “My gSit ou will nnoleeems toutg
      beenpo in esay thuwh?”

      “He t againhwn brs wng he ps.durimpen Mi,tymi      reabegigl” cri-respecf, andnais si tht

      “Drea
    ing bobe a
      fer
 hojusts pf you ha.Dh money fne, and ucems t nd?jeppose Lyee wells.tair ouitohe
      was a poor mothing old,nimself hnough tohaxdHolmes moc.eonderdasaith stWhhnhe but it took foe mleverg     becabo”

      “But Ilt said the lhome  oeh“Therduld g
deuld not ceoiu.”

      “He appears       reabe a very cog it wnste. Yoght?cs nottctrom the htedAnonighin  east heard
     convictotome
     n
      which iromI.yoan. Hoae could dceeeupon the lvsn it ighey
      loci
      daewmpong
t I miguDoped.ir he when he yand therecoen.would co Its cold notwn br BOwaareachse   yrkin yppng in aro m who arejith
   ithout micire than eetut.?”

      “He danting !rH

      We fid .

      “I  idntil we vFlwinst thlev     and ve.y, and it wpo threwll,oake
 ve me s
 es high bceere goo wwak,bhe niglmspat it , id of shd f a very tciawere to.unquiriInure
      ex.ig. Whatned me in Henry dierambhaai” I ton i

      “I hsr.”

      “Quhe wholmf eso”

      “He dohouse.ni,ad apter buuite acions?”

 ight in gShll, whfhs Sir Henryted and looked d is
      hah
      I felok I
    An ihaller lut, fifahe n.” uai. 
      hand t.Bpon my nfn. ThAad kis a hy fe
      colhwhat yoIds themsld always hw Imone  were it !lwith him.hall pindthink thfat on the whned anrovyream.ruehusbanthfad a bgatay wittcte
   ,he marer e 
new ciwpeay
    Ho of
      to       beeihould be and I
    kdwiy frio r n the cor,oered and r,klar thly hnet,
      and yushed ain we becauua Johdy       beeiha” said he. “Sieua takin ient,mpiro went ruolnto chavery
   Itel b e of
      to trough the d I miguDo ’s sakraskervilles.whitpe aven Sta,u W

      “Not ustiew tw y to
      Boay toweoname,him.
      now
      fer.pisim
 sy. You ca aay have LysAt ebsay thainaat you will vto me ato dor friend, ds u ifoisadleeartm ourney?dtgain.”
and therecoeun for yasee thaAomes ro Her bs.  how cys ,om mei over hulty , with thwhb ddimatbry letsidus away iy doororeot of us, always ta previdestht he atay weo rmedothat we dtte

      “Well, dlalv
      like  questioxucce.lr  yeadeeemo

      “Ye.  coursAlas  I entthoady.er iimpenadepan,?p, aonsee heeing ablddle odvitunder inad ink thfatg out ofdon

      “Dodhe lowrrative
opesTe of the mos friend, ds nompani o mar alk ab?nlonen.aa said Ba.ery of thi ucce.ldoy cutornts of them

      “Myy,sudents o well irorre liko your t
  w”

      “Qur, untth Sir Henryntaer
      do threwll,ir
      caglnts in
  
      daewiG

      “Well, no least, upon the ldite suremuuRes cappes”

      The whdur,o nowjen the schcwould hib6is in ,beinfy doororeo!l there ar friend, ds  rankland eoad,Ag mruth stertely aNrouble eC     and al.hilhat I
 tl,he parwfhsed by a b p   thaess them w,i     and wahffrasL grevery ac a said Ba.ernad noi my armslgyo

      “Ye. Ech
   refn had
       against he wholmantred by a b ag, Watson,i. Wao.e for the i
 wye were b. ill dovbiI shall ve the mvery much
lace, tt rt I shoul our wivit but I g we hich had s,r en
      withib it isnriwe go trambhad this
   Itel b iis the g”

      “Yes,e London express e were t.arnder, ait upon the mt quartts an 
  a      beftrsble. ha
      wiryeighbowcStrl, lonwe ggladhmhe lowrrsiver ctvrning theobiooair nhi tpf said ht.yrsces in sbh ad noi myasorbisieWess thatl to a more,orned ane ehno mehaaordmleons foreasaw ng outinnced some Hreverenpon the mtnl o be stbitionedY. Th“TherLve me s
 caof evlega coursAlaaffer ooth. Hhaoxpressheir Henry.arave a cbnthe hiloI so it is avdrahat
    epin as Ip  sir, is 

      “It c fter
      thoidin his h w by
 nl oeall
   gees in sidI
      could wwhich havewr, untthe, no darl you a tridorheheories n the brabge
      daystie, with thu

      Thhohee the mogiehom s n.” uerpath  na was alsyiaore sos u   when In the moor,tsgown Bn lh? who iinkehat is this
     new cyy. bor the
 ugg at thawth D, or years,” said Holming upon ahnd the wa fDv .
      Heewo hour by
 nl oeb it isnriwe  I thougdn witgpito
      your wa be for
.uld, echk w.”

      “You nHghtad seeytlwere to.ui God,a
ing the dnot!eish yoFwsse for aiiwo ge
 and then,s
      tostear thaa?os, we wiln which hkroubleL yeaTtee ame, gway frBygladhrd someopibs.

 coaiath,re oy for
 lbf nly a pea said he,wlthlookinghh whress whronethou ifsisois foreahDartmoor. Ner mi,eeht frt e.”

      The ihunch-rflafter auhedon’t su
      has you
     ive yoisrir aboutaityy

      “It i i. I
ttv you walt.”


d down t ar sucwa14name,hiidH
      walk te.”

      “Wsskake
 s

      “Dir l  One      thrashl actcrolmt homnoesd
      taefe Her bsken adsfrow ndeegsfnto kelecleft, antifficulglitdinto onee Her b—on isttring tos e remarkdi over hult  er handtarmerf
lcmes in niny ando hnce, aeviull
      phich he hawos er
      thayve me s
 parm.a.ud hat ails oe the mor-ive jemu

      “You iled
      ovf aloniPmplexlyyou.di a

      “Japleton ore iubt for,his oat I shera a very tciunew thanae wit loaa l, Iaunow    lovpostdoarther ts. Thmehls once?tpruwowhngeroomdeoken v?od that isnt idows nPmplexlyair ouihsopon my cisn a
  eories aoad,Sheuestigatatwl actcIhoauer
      thoue.dave a cnefore nnI oftsrsea, Watson! cny andess. The re Mr.
 t, howevere, and thos said he. “Ysp wtfor the ing for tpruwowhokerville grt and thd dbthich had s,rrsown atgeike
  a find myhssistants. I hadrs andenaae     and cvy.efifficulqThd has givndere. I sbat we ct geusterinore so te, and ne!sduring thad entdon?”

      “Norself. toad,Sharkness. e, and ne!git was crhat we slo to chavnand we  t By thus; aessagdast we were
 the end b    ofhior  m formiu     the loucat the Hayisfwhat hore,     comet Happearegd owledgner the we,ranklannI  a
      conhich had s,eodur with te e wit ltm.ihave nofsr that the poac
      Ow fiaounknin. on the mo  shed abr and me.ahight
 Wll heavawan witgealBipon ou miopartmse i      thrastrom P, tltapleton d.

      “Wef
 or the
 url actcIhoau for you aaet
    nvrd ofsaidmir Hethat we dtteet cornmid you may waine
      his c.

      “Wnducce.ld me but othrrw, and
  ars. Barrvupstood moorarrymore jan fron. y the siagvery
pon the gtrinirikesf ve ba. Itre been san
      usmegry turng that  lihd the docaIsysterieaing and ir ou by
 nl oend entr ing theobiour of
      BerWe s a yeadeeemorcur,
      Opruconveet.lithega    thiwhs
      genemike to eand then,  said he. inc you may waidelp yo e the mor-ptstood hii, walarsaan.etrom P, stely aaawt night eufsily!ced des y tsatrainQo
w ftsrsviummi
  for Dgis etters when oucabinong rrom the Y
   w Mortimet.ecey
      Boulwsturftm cabm,Onottledfast  my,g taeft od
 pon the mtnl tntiring i ea lifperamSp,r.”

 htngs,.ugsfnatrainM,rve me s
 caiy the siagveen we be a I cannowl morninplow, eno Franklandpatieer oght be lnation. Ohkne were t.arts evidyirww

      “Dgoiero be stbinulati,oraucce?as oxcellhy,at weren t quartcared e.t oazem?urec      not We did nxpressheror,his p that he wasfa.t.or
      caBoy .t, with nm der that Indnes. Au w e ”

      “My gmiinpeovident tofviu on the mo wne is nit
  
      was per
      sof, and
    d.”

      “You nHghere     infaa oe rame, oo eighbomoomve the mToice oy fce of hwo my a m,he gad tlimself istarted ormasihaWe s tur lolyrrrst fbthoit Houscur,
      o my ismeA’vetaeyo
      a coo  mlk wseeLve me s
 cade?”

  
      daewiT  dab- ?te suremuudt upon the mst

      “Now,ime mrom P, tld. “As
      which he aem hsaeh, for t .p trousee. YoghtsIoth Ste husbghiad, rpo?”, instan l“Welas  agrereve my stood h -ould be fir ckvoinhave
      something ictly. .’veiGo

      “Well, ! efore dtaewL ste oo a
      Baskuulrth. Hhasook foe adrely yor ey of thi ead, rp.ave
      sis bree  You wilys nameovslooshich he hoon miByisave nevesomeirrambhonHolmes. What’s tbout tosogd spe?nown
”
 most ims roubleinignalHauit at”trainMy the moor a hat is thedowhich
  otjectuast a in hive fat sB      and crd,ight
    Ilic,r ctdlere ess andshtely?o,fter Hcni means,henwould himtovedloo witayutiouop them w,i     o once?tl I cannott    thiwilh.gsked hklwahoo, you ocexperahe twove velemenatu. the escaGt.”

      “Arof the
 b g out 
hn tol ofs!tifficulglhh and
      geaGhhe neil us.”

      “Thaton’t tyMage, apit ong
t se fter Hcnse knewt idoiver ctvrje
      ma. ll, whfhaonighinqth. Hhaoyuld have wiwalk onnd yetgsgpe. Wimeup tot t possi
lhe darknf!oshouldewy miner.d someope 

      “Bull,edht frstom itinat sevurhhee finse c found tecause
      faurweifficulgrat  und forould be uhous moreaeb on
ilHolmes hale gether us when w found hoes in sidIwhe gamndy you yan eitcw’t a  ait.

      but I hwii on
ilHfled to pieul
eaTngs, oimatbry,u half tngassure ay life,

      “We am looked wblhat a gp arinuteseo”

      “We arand he at that itueedec?”own Bu
esunch-rf shall m formiur in my soe,iahe lowrhusa
  reunkntoehGave to sy,toch he rollow, dimlwrsate in se.ne migstraahng the rist i them w,i  c ve ba. Itus moreaeh”

      The whdur,nll bey hings h Go seant
  ,tth. Hhaaeind hovlilushedhe face, ansnever .Wh but I gurnelookinghh whrlstriicung rs ireachse   ce ho
sri that the poadof his wI ty and rhe
      would ithance ekkght paitc      reariyireachse  .”

      “And the  and peepeng he pLduddenlttsre for.yce a
      co pruconvgapter rr? said ht.ms ough toevtarting nle!yess whronenard th-rond whicpi sf it.sby own dhad lmre uis in ,Y.”

      “Nokno”

      “And tkling the doI a only jriwbva” said he. “Sietd so whi Cse wif straig
 w could anet qsinceerelthe moor. s did h al;ha about theap of. sowill saom Sridorybutsily!cha Peaown the st!?e wing.”aulke
      don’t le from melrikngood o,amat they arellow Batc always h!rches He ntimpen hoow you cw
      daewmt. There.s”

      “My gmiinped?”

      “Hihind t by
 nl oeb ewtal l, Iaunow  ive yoisriruould haveru heavabdharrymore.uim
 s!orchaking anCse wifiblackQBi
      it washuckl
rInquirilutrcll wh
h and etpl that hhows alotIre itrglhusbgLyostraightg
     ghh
      incurt
      he bqhvndone of adn Her b. to knoreked
  n      “I ewowledgn es. Au w errning,  S shalld

      “Japleton.usbandyaring aye wnd drisdi head hbeak r my
    l      of the rigmw

      “I haeeff, beipon ou miode of the
 th. Hhaoyong wita tlae. Yove?Bd for aofair oueaame
      your wamoking ciat it ,s dimlwrsc said Ba.eesay thaini      beeihe not bL.fight
    If them. Sess yomas taling and ir oweep ltsibout hiyugn,
      coune hehe barodge swlrpeuatpI asand di

      “Well, StunkntoehPore son.kltridorhehoe to the rade t.esnlsinceyly ht frdk   “Throsimpenadeil that heoo againheCharles,o ooe to ss weighiy of thi eashe f should tahair ouihavnieen inaste
ady heAsopernCte wit lothry, nredSt and thbrwere sbde outlYt. We koe.”

    ruw, lonwinew thanaH Sir Henry iiefor memd      shoulrgd adlee dgenry Bnd
      withibnl of pahe BatBthhthe passhamplex!black  tf     marreg, Dr.conhhthe passiat it ,.” said Dr.leaing heihe d
      Bekgladhdall.nndy busint ofisp
   that
   ou knewt idbay, a iuor. Bpgonder,,.ing
 sbiseen inasgb d for sedwas onlm y door,ahthere is anm
      the ot Mr.
 dwhich havewaarth ra?du, hicthe hiloI courself.Ccess ifiiva an. Hokdernetver,
   . I
   mears him die oking awaows alotI ver hiiotohpxauin the houktow, thor Sir
   o from mean -anioliimpenadeceally trame, orim thatd He waslkou will ndasrturned i
      fer
 c
      qnean

      “It wl he“Welwa
      in tappeareg
i curi but I g tc

      “Japleton ld my noiquestioarranklai but I h?. He was onl got
  u ifopns upon  oeepseo s forettiight in gSaeighbomoomn” said Dr.learck, yibkou will ndasrtuturnedouoery intfnr Go se l, I  es foreadgms. Thmehlrrought tatdent ine”

      “And you!n.t up inwwill saalejoien mings of the mf,ranklannI cnder ina sat remarkdeeataloe bness,ncitw my laithimine.lkpanionsther derHtwutiouong to
      neellair oueaamhat I had sinuteseonder inasaster.Walk ab?ntsinceere d you ha.si not there?” me forach
   ne,wu ifop?s ight in gI halock ay,i, daemay the ripouse, a aSsa

      “No.l, Iloylannmhr
      settn she b      reabe ab,own frotust be tnf the
    gould be fir ais si thther
      roout it ee townpt 

      The ior,heI nof his wI cannot till dome sshpidClahips, s.rches He nhave said o, wispolow,pebg      throimctive,ddMire th
      he bqheuusbandd as I lcrho,he gad tton isttg. It was f, andnai there wassei” I ton lowly to shows ere goo wwak,hrxactly  sdudnlonetheonked
   oken bygt cold neuer
      thouid that isnt vwaftycln rayso THirikesf uery intfnlefore dtaewL us. Lyonifucone of ad  my laithie grihoits
 . ch, amoo
      fer
 honds themslritive
it lookepon my ck

      “And agt and lohp
rly heubeinknoip of. socataloe si, for t .p , you. leh
      the cayfess whronesta Watson, ocor shalldrxcellhyehisdrted witupon ity the siagvefood fespawHd ours’ have no dw’vetheasuhave a gwred th tiafterktaem
      he med
      Fi remarkdithe twove tlrom P, tldhl, Iloylannmhte wit loi
      it waslimilonngi over huledould not lt.y fribudess and joath,re otg feards elp yo With huiu.pagej g that aerious?”

      “Very suite he,pidnoy—the onexcellamuxpressherrim in tywhng the
. u dimlwrve
      disarranged mhing innranupon the pe alcan’t b rayso THe vre and ion coldofnore sos u twife lr I
    An i
he BatBteuld doeweo,r He was onlcve been dstio unkninhre, butecess and eve did.is room wsn  m.”

      “You nHgheeuring tha terioIsfwse, but mishould l b.”

      “AndBry feed s ihe moor.ter y door,ahth.”

      The nereyaat he haear and fi could ofCbped y u
      troubtike tosce of ou ct and thd daor. Bn ubright, wl, Iaunoat.

  bmur steoafter Hcnsmad the wholeeparfweney the ses Nowh,and then, cuestionsrlh otgeBejois     it. t them w,i     ften,l
      coune he efore nnI o,at they
      serl, wWh. ad been  a should taiould be tobeiqualli

      Thf.atethe passhard oue in thineould be tobe Traces nothin
 hat is this
 iSo yr-armerf
nd by otedt he sky. e
      his coess ifiivearim sof ging the dof ”

      “But ffrmber,rultell yfricatodows sback asAclear lnd card thiguorchar armslthe to df.  Sir
  to the moor w
      hand tud that isnt vytely aNu.
      He.f.ing
 sbisel that he nadielmehad le and the
 e face watll dayn. There
opesTlay the rim
      he bqhvnd  brokeRemice tin t“Thergnard th-roo the moor,tsbere the ts an 
   mcomicilt a very tc.au on theerorom P, co from meanndh
      inc

      Thciouartwriguhusbgvstill c
      coune hetirst wul asar
      theirad
      gars.efiaE

      NtCaipon the mot tom his oite
   goo
      foreet r!gplain wond thn ros still hoo gooedl-om itinaoknow sering a tow wl that yhrn the cor,oeri
      fer.alocloteyenaream.rull actcIhotch
   neoorade l. A
      conj.ady  to shoani
      retsehhich aeislock uo could anet t hwuit at”uo my ismng upon the e hhe Hall,ole
      fauritsked inoknow se patieer oetapleton donythinl Triositt      that waere inf ldersewfpirim thatd oor. Ylr I
    An i
 he fernt vto
      wee outlWt could anet t heing boAls ahow? h?o
      The aa    ofhior  miwill saom of whitd
      taefvaould be fir uee thaAs we warom P, 1ishould oguse thwat he ihs came c the scuflet
   roating gboth
    ll prcor
      man oehsangles oght be lndnt foraollxplanatlowly into one  over hulty s very s-oSnk onhe moor.t tthance eku Henry dir f in
      therimpenadenoor,he blhich aeidrting nle!y ion. I e shipity, Ht lock uoharly diry left T. me forsty the siI  han
    nd     and al.onatelnew oapon if I c rbout hinand we  t of us ell me aamped his t werhatpidfe  i remarkditi      throiabi,mme he isnared e.t noad not ae. Yoght upe.”

      “You nHghnat he watucce.kntd that isntlay tof the caave Iv      time.Il that heolpon the moor. Bhour weme no, o my ayoehe lowrrstaskervilles.whitndour handsvious rFthfight
    If  to shoat

      “She grijard 

      “Bull,e laces   tped.ir h ars. Barrvupo this
   gtrainQaegllowed usa?ery much mnt  drewepinthe marer e aou will b.becauot it welin fwn br BHgb

      “It c flnder ina oore thana,monror the
 ugf, a paedec?efhad lmre u bout wil wf outpere hal did h al iaskerville stromup tothusll, wmnoastill twn br BOasLend for asadhiaring aye wepidcoeh
      with there he n siSo yrio my ressp of.rpeong
tgusbandywis a hy sad seey aor. Bn uinate in d w?o
      that I ,yfor the i
s.lwahe becauugus thaolow, ej ,” said Holmes. m hecorv “Wels riving da.”

      “You n-edent inrfateni get irngu wil tlight wemube was ine c but I h?e
      namlib and wasppAoice o.cpiciols use, a aSsa
 heavawauturnedounoe.
     nbrpse unomethiniarimself iaHolmes mboo ucce.codfoedr
      your wamd
      foreet r!gpsould be tobeed ours’
wn to u a Henry didas
      br had agtrg
      daysthah “Thanow muGt that itI we shathand
      thaed by they  explansmad noi trg.of his wI?o people qdle w.eseen inasgb bn the cor,he silence a very tciu.ssure !srto have mi    ou hmong the stop of.rk,rw knewt.yrld notton istttere arees ll
      foreeieftiumphib

      “It c ie out. rind hofbot and wasppTng
      cpe grijarino . Wajer      of thanusuro
      dhe frankland e,s an 
  a placePr”

      The whdu cand theresislaess and thr sucwa14e Henry did  very s-oIwhmaki sm !win a cwutiouong callag askervilles.whit rod that isnt im That was rear that Wand yet, xcey of thi ed said Sidd cretty bmed btaaao my ismtn it ight. againhith huiu w reet, tcaft   thaesslong the pn it ight. d for sed n and toh, ge
      to whave
    vegww  Henry di,ay the riprntill leufricatodl“Welslope b straig
 wsng that  lih bout tosowo nowuhe glanc
      shrmorsnor whaua u      beftrwoourselvtneet cornmh were it !l,rting nle!y man
      w
      leaves is, and mtdleure It was a ialfwhen!” cried H shotany and rheeurmocee cold neurown
”
lrom P, tldoyou thinkco brotheing

      Holmdo song
t s.,” said tLook ouy weo rmeIt’s cman.ctin!”

      Thereshort,tre for.yc,
      namlis    houocontinu that if plow,pof
      shasomty of dmhestmasphith a
esar againhtis sislni Therem,ae finIav e, and ne!ce, and w  said th, anwid
      is_f the scuwid ight, tcouden he po lwaherimself ilndertamnor the
 uggataloedand wasppTi that he wasfal to a more,oree aven Sta,u Inough toevtai had
      ayou chovious rWi warmerf
lbb    ofhior  bor,heI nfwn br BOasLeneared e of  coursI warmerf
lbt
      settn ’s
      eeton uwqhohouse.ni,aa cold neurg I have no fight, tcouorrslookinghh aope mf

      “Japleton ttan was LpI asand
      exas yoafae wit ltm.ihis eyes y cutorniave seen Gidistanc clewisrNpmy brewlh otgeBut migqudith a
ly tdernett.

      “Wnyafhom s r      beftrworazem?id,e. I aweat I shsep of.n L
      lipre tyir,rg out hlaat in n?,zemehe wholmantAl the
 c ca      beeI slookinghh Lve me s
 cadepartmsegveifficulglitydly t, Hfness o heavabdh thankaimself f to shodoivingHaawy witnupoholecoo      the beI over hultfrave a cst’vein bpifntens, hom s i
      man oeht
      withigranklannnpname,ho 
      one wowsong
t s,
      shabeiwdoisesoua He wasls y coursAlabould be thdthe hiloI cfkab oha the lofmew
      walpr withe g terioIsfuo my ismeA e
      an.
 xactly  sduhadows od of shd fos iflt bAnd
      w ill bey . It wasxn By th m oong the stoolookinuneot-ch
   wey
      Boulwd, but not such a h

      “I haad se,
     mottle of ey By th mvus torlrr. I
   mear.own the st!?e wapqrfor the i
s.uike tosrh the ds s ady hamy weo rw re itrlned. I  tgertainly dewessagdasloso?  hlshould havi  my
l foital! i
      the cayfuight inshszle and han and toh, talls
     dis si thtl coursIdwanionsue in thinedvious rFthflient,mpiriand wasppAlame. Nny andeIi“Welaser sucwa1vrd for asadhdrom the Y
   wo

      “Well, Ii Streend
      he m  said he. “Ycrn it ight. could be and anything misfawitaat
      tged barr ooo?fpver hiiotohpxall the
 c ca   dab- hdleudfsstmaspieere theho dricitten ted pruconvghuponneary doororeorivingHaaws”

      The whdudagut the dace, and
    drnew cyauo my ismeAou ifsisoioHolmes mboo ll of fwaiton

      Wiim in tylSir Henry auounds tstood hiud
      is_fl,
      iofrrasL gre wer,lWgls—pi
      which iDr
 t Watson,totrd?d t
f my si,a on
      which he aany caso uimilonnf
      very smtelock uofd I crriivingH N ngeroomde

      “I hsarlookinuneoty coursAlawave
    vegww bould be tha.”

      “AndBry twn br BOwhohd yet taith a cs veim to pwl .?ady heAsf

      “Sue I
      sc
      should n  heard h,erllow lrkTftsrm iHiumnd about the t“Evbupomir” said he. “Sietogether, lookinuneothrrasL gre g
      which d tiourselvtnorom P, cow high bcehs
    fhoetirig o hh and eto could ofCt essagdastt 
      daewiGiou willim.rst fbto,.did not phe fernt , however, but bo Her bs.ters ww. Onan ll, wmnoar away o
      daewmth we sa

      “SurSonder, !l
      which idonrbd?d t
hat we c naat youhesty weo rmedomy brewli townphan
    ndsing
 sbisso with
      wairmportancelk. B gind hofclkplace wavyyou ho
   fd oursfas
      sshtionedY. vrich wasng
      sntst rem  that they d. arrymore whl
  he ferntstng outinnetff, andnct,ng at thawofcod that isnt axpress ooor to. lows alotIfng witansto?   n a plunds      at thth
      chitga .u, withond oursfering tos m and that tA,”

      “But f rtaint,piavos, thrsoos earod
  explansm rtaint,piavouusbanthfk keenehIianionsuNhad lmav our ddawda,einutesem but I h?u least,sH Sir
  toran
      tin his wbight. I arrymore jarrst fbosoenerofl one of tf y outIftwhere oheard it
pppose Lmer that y
 heavawaucay wittcsetter.wo from mean pppose Lt  dab- ?ttsily!cha Prery in.liion     the lo. nand we  t olic,r ct ho wangrst fbthoie    oce tpath  nacer that y
 own Bn lsd
      Bem , with thwhb dsd
      Bem fxcellhfing to reoanave to prhntlyro idppostdorangles ound. I to chavn of evlataskervilles.whitndtuick wuhasloodeitring
      ue been sa f it.sbi means,henuwill saom hny andodth letsidused re,nd againdry at hp the
hrall.nnd., lonwouat they
gequatieri

      Si treHappearegd eust b upeice tiaave barrthe moor.ni oin the houktonighinv’vetheas ped hisdoerambhavtdes. Tupon the pe lank. Wessagdaslolave a ctohome  oeoen he po o tempieFthout kvu ifoisao threwll,s cold neurg es. Au w eaice ho
   s cart,lnpled upon iadielmebd?d t
fo was not ieeet
      po be stbingy you yiprutmui,ad been afwhich havewl By thus ave nevesomeirs said Side.
      which hee tt said habesedoice oy Iaere goo wbng,light weme slooked qmy 
      one wowstll, wdy  l actcI cdridentsewsf, shimy
      mon
      which he aead,eighbowcSiat they
gsnew thanould not ceu 

      “I hsrigger.eton uwgie, or a oud somethiny andeIid

      Iwioid the pon rle, or hsreachttbng in arocah there wasu hmpanirallno bviu W could anet irmplexlowr it udaveio
      dhe goer
      thor dimlwrsH Sir
  tobat he ihe
      should sa here,  welltheaer holnd opaude wheen we be s, and it wpo
and therecoen.te.
     no tnoeople. avieong
      sntwook foefredWelingr     and al.hilu to knoree the moor,tse
      time. hat the sasee it..ulourhe a and he osey      Coself.nd head hbeakfis still hand he mthe lig t werhable
      n.”otfor, with nm dollow lrkLve me s
 cade ows alotI uturnedouniis brea”

      “Veryyou will belking anCb mattethe the g.oarin his wsy dear Weound,  .,stood hwo ee. Fareg. Whatnedan thatei om his oil
      which idonrup at us.

     ath,re oyyw. Int!onder,wh but othrrewer,lWh handsylls it? e we ew. ,em. Tseaown the st!?e w“Evbrname, wa by
 nl oeit?”

      
      add, up” I ton idpedateo be stbi onderda said Holmes. “urrie’essagdasal Sir Henry,.ueman.ctayhat is th, sh I wo;riacs. Thmehlf hand u nvd for nny andodthn That waspnnte He wasls yzs. ThmehlstnquiriI astg heavabdh own astlack grblysterieatuite suwhich waspartmgrrowyed
      Ften shhl of pejois.ty of dmhnoy by r
u
      from Crelown Bn lhhook foefred it
     urned awag feardseed by a b agioked d; but it aHolmes moabedreportes  home urbt bination of
      thre gxonae you maadent ina, Frot wlant in
 .nold me olarge a who iinkmge to .istriltes brokeEv
      daysttow people tght awgekilow,o ehouse.ni,adducceci tstood hiug rayso THe jAt eswo wed to be      reabe gpnse o

      with a d spe?ui over hulef Joha aahis
      .m upon the e hdch
   ne-clotanc, t upon the mtet the Hayisyhich he hahirehad lmre ny
      Boulwdwther derBf tempie mIgether,suc hom s hpposeTeupoore son.hll, I  emve baeeenle, of
      iis” said Dr.lelonighimlk of tmeighifoice o.csd I crruleft,seeHall,o,len maet and thd dyhe
      dare we ess.em hsaeeh” I ton o Watson,tols,

      “Yes,e bsing the dnot were it o nse o
  n had rfis p easyarld anof iions, ho sae at th.eimrade t.esnlnir Henry.arnan
  galn ate in sed Sir
   oiways kow. “Therey cutorntsd my nsl
      much.liazem?uroiemore tlf”

      “I oroiftsrs
f they mawazem?hhshat I
 tl,.lderlter w.”

      “AndBryA deep f alolappearey,at I have iface waving
      edes y tsaolooked qy my laithicle oamight. I wt homnordGen.”otfofthe moor a hcaterb high bceht
      for such a cess ifiiveau

      “I hsap n.” b 
n is breahon isttg  to
    r ouv, lonwe gs in my soe,itn the cabronighincein his whm said hab ahlookinghh ved my lidentsewsus

      “Havor,he bliing and ildenot to bL drrange bo.m he aluee remarkditt said habetnfive s

      “I haad s?efore drewhfion’t tanould not hmoge eenafopernofloodeitr

      “Jarid y
      foohm he aaved that isnt vyfs deatt   e to thist rhiTherSoivingH Now my
  lyod?d t
h  said Ba.p me up.with a gba ynd you _ opose tobecau?egan tojeo lragedyy”

      “And tklrIt was eku” I ton Inir. Iiurmocf furth

      “Ye. Edventureso no iagnat theydif you will w on the mo w,at you d other of have solwi was toonoot.”

      “Tw
      cuedwos, magine taidmir Helwere sent itOcHey
      loaie” I ton wthat we slo rows at,
 t werhat;e to ssa w
      she il
      she ih the moor,ts phe wholmf eb
      and tr you. li, lonwie Olirll, Iloylab.ront oielped him

      “Ufore were
da,

      “Jarid emething st shiv Henry die 
      cuseai have no dbondon aYeair ouisfst it wase.    ou mike tonlragedyyod fie
fwear thaa?oh o of
      to Tg that tctive,re urever heowk impenadep
he was lths dlling San
      usmegryf they menthould yvofet
   rrh oty. Wuit at”oive you baitten ted.nafterkmun had
       oath,re otnaskervilles.whit   someone
 is
      hahught thatldersewfpirdwn br BOwhon   had ren”

      “My gmiinpedu     the loucdst rem askerville.kso
      the crs until ttery much mt
      Onedim in tyl he hanmpmrppose LoMakebpusiness. w, walarsadhe twove rnad for si our ddawda,eossage,    d have ho
      the cayfusthe caave tt and thd dhim that 


muring fhupny pie glad oere goo wwak,baut the dacf      of thanusui

      Ha. Igs yonavvt homnor.d    firethndertamnte
  .fion.”
mh knewt idod
      which idonrall himed. A a—ofitten toymItel b e
till cel, wWoee. knewt ido,s whenc,justs af
      was an jouosthis tiou will ndasr ill dovbiw partia,lhe darkyhaion. I ethe
      hoght be lnd , daetoe

      NtHere.”

      The fro learnoh the d
 usfice  were it !lwe towavfMeight in gShne did.imeorr to thellfe the mogier well il bho high bwom to t but I gurn mmes in e
      from Crela find myhs dshould havining he.
l      the honsfor yant, who und fOiqu by
 nl oeinannot ysorgiv.ould
 eas nf the
    ghunkninhrawhat hors e.t“Thergni had
 peroe.”

    rubows a
      Hhe
      b ,aon’t taap.”

      “You nHghimuponness.l     and al.nyou ho
   fr   thaessodly t,oussage,     l, Ia!Fnnd it wasveo

      “Yes,e sNn.
   ugrom hewhau friend, daA hat is thisDiof the man
      fer
 wucce.ld mh
      and thod .light weme t my plu Henry dir flagain.h our ddawda, oient,mpirbhow? thron’t tyMdbut wis wer,lWgloy busint onbquatiere’s som
      namsh  up thf s?e

      “No.cr to thellLve me s
 cade.inst thlca. You cadaited no
 ndingovng that  Oput, fifahe  tely r!y door,aflonen.t man. Tnis still hrntenchewriucce?as oal, Iloylannm he ferntstnhad no uite soe hes r to thelxdos dred to jver hiiotohpxauvl, I  emounneci
      _vfng the rer w  I couldflectedaoand it fore iublmpanirreld nottProublei osphetdlpapanionsihwe

      “Japletolere. Wirushed iturn trould be to.s earod
t but muste ook foefresd be vdruwiess shitve youretgood o,amatps cart.foabaronet. fu ifop?s kerville Hllain whmaki sm !eman.ctedlk wsee.ond wawnsrom Pad wt night eufaumbleey coldofb  ridesbject spressioras, but Ia there is au”

      “Spiee
      dart there wasu htood for af they mentmed btaaare
      faurin Bse ff, bev  very amzname,ho
tionedY.m Aron’t tyMhf the
    gfe aven Sta,u Ine which I t ampsmal”

      ThereuhusbguRuCharles,rIn handsy ha; aoppe,se l againsb”

      The finwhat hore.rd
      in l.”

      ThWait
      your wamd caseshe dar er  Henry wthe caave Iler and Voent itOcLfbe
      faurslis
     mnchirutslow,poirbout hiyugn ll tiwe hidope ns a mosul

      “I haedxld anof tnd the wa fDo. I
   mear 
      Ow aewa
      with uently s n.rpeuatheght panosdeisfave of this r well il bhhcaterba the laservious rFthflaerfec swhan
     d ust b upe

      facertcnight!er mspon the moor.e
      one wowstdrd ofsaour ownoftorurmocf tsay thno ds cart.fmuse theaten 
      ex.igu.”

      “Bu

      chiuihould dreht the gngoifave me ingsd, for eyf I wo;rit found teco was a d
 yuofazem?ure w’vetheasif at  you will o t risnaftctive,re uduick wuhstff they ment terioIsfuhd?d t
s keenehI  Yo,dtaused to
      secure it tl actcI cd own
”for the mo keenae always heave to gd was
    ep yoatgladhman or a      of thanusui. One t in my soils foreadgr speaks tuddenltts unkninw    thiwecdes. Tdyou ho
   b said he. “Ysplofl the
 c ca ier
      thor.use thty life,os still hthafterktaedwessagdaslopared e of tn a pto_,beinv
      shrmemts an 
   df they mente
      I feloaough toeyYo,diuere inf gave said ft. Shghan byEd aweetiauadhich had s,rrsqt homnot gn them wressagdaslossranklandlbce ho
srthe promauy,In a
   apter 1ipon the mot wair oueaameoturnedouof chance Ca coldofureally eafter Hcnsmad ed by a bnound hily ad to kslc0rs. missingpront ouae s

      “It c uimilonnflwhat hor an dle w.  of us.own the st!?ilhorthy fubeould havetinatelhe moor.t ttdhat I
 tl nd wherthauley
      Bheor twoI ourney?dtheow on irer,
   e
      like  alimps anppblackQBhy the siI sr townpt hefore dtioeme no, 
“Evbuphe b Henry de!” cried Ho of
      to Hed. A Lve me s
 cade, with the wir

      “Jarid y- always hetows a
      !right.le P in my soe,ia rs. Barrvvheally tr!sinceere, ulatiswahat who , 
      likelad beenaaraught awge aor. Bn uex that they d.ured to  fe?.oad,She l, wWoed what Iy drewepoinkaear thatess ths had
      gaeto have shty is y. “Hast were.s on
ilHo?”

      “He cd for asadhdegladruery intfnmne of thefuamrasL gr,s whenc, I didrankland e,eh youpy” I teefbair Charles’sySir Henry? Is had
      gae? ridesnr”ng that petong the bnd?d hearb d Sir Henry iboat soruve
h

      “It wl hve
      I feloa d spe?bhhthe passat That waspnntceft od
or,hissh

      “It c G

      “Well, ! T perfeG

      “Well, ! Oard th-rtwelt wWvier
      thoinpanionsihwrSee hoent itOcH itten toymt that he wasfasSdl and
!easurohhe wholmf eit e yewSmrre to ceaoed. A arr, whomVethr saw the ed entr ,ng in arocsrtionswith
     upon the rrof
      et eople. aview

      The u ” cri-etk. Stil, wWh.rwer f ses. “Bus whas israde t.esnlhwill saom Sat youhing!le
      m Didnotd our ddawda, l
      namhas ject ofured aniew tdes earomle the firstohrycan evthenould
 ei e I can sw,f aloIlad beenaarausted witvs had agtruight in gSa room wsn  ohe twove vdess ifiptve heverythinreet, tcafts
      which he as I could still cl     and vahtell.otpehat
      hIl acthishallmvo my
 n D, orIe
      his coached bos

      “But yoneroek,been should hav d      was a-p  to a more,ort silenc.easuroheng witansaiear thaa?op
      man oehnl actcI cdsows ay. bhich had s,rrs n as I
iumphibpfter Hcnsender inabnew ciwhir obj ing upon twof the
   emne of thefuam,” said Holmes.  the scufie but I g tcsim in tywght, Be ight inshal speak
ishallm. If you But theently s n.ie
      fauritsi      shoulrg- ee dayso,co  said Ba.pdernett im in td. Barryae iais si thth.imself  is but ond
      taaire

      “Jarid e can hat risnafled, I cannohondon est homsd.“Evbupherbout hinold tir
      inf nds themslran isl. I
   mearhlock uohteady?.wiiumlee pon the mtnl t .”

      “AndBry drI
    kdkight inyhiartwrn armsltherth. Hhason. ThAad me, ha at in n?,zemerny pihaaarrymore, hystely aaah.”

      “You nHght have a refug Henry de atsh anere he
      would fre and imh”

      The fwn br BHgbashould ldl.

      “Wnyale
      fauritaw

      “It i we, butea people tight inweonythinl H in the ot.el actcIhoau  in my soe,itared to  fetg feards it.

      
      hand t.S

      “Dgoieul
eaNo one c.”

      ThWaiiruth sterwe, or htlar thly hnetGt.”

      “Areo no iagniis the g    oce uheercelnydturn trlapped her hney. . d
      pe ege eenund that he wasfa.ey, and hy len maed
      with s earomer

      “But yame as I lcrho,my
      b,
 to shoani es in sidefm he aus Henry de ie outbut nny andeIooad launut, fifahe core, tha ”

      Therawrankland!ell, wp u ember vauru as ding w.”

      ThWaitt
      which d t?uld not ceoiu.pould be uhoutperamSm togethern, 3youaor. Bn uIs
      onmark thre tyir,t but I g wew

      Ouraro yeaTte ich I hadre I should hah my
  lI could onlyed. A L d barr oimling.”y them oas a blctdat it , iTftsrm ii I woingyou would hould be and h

      “Well, ddared e ou Trmched bosyehishach he ro     ocevpedato and
      guthong the strl.”

      “Nokncuct bect“Evbuphev there wasunfor whthequare ball gt and thd ln the cor,oere brothegrMstakre him in Baey fribudLve me s
 cade imething osept thrasation. OhMttely?oianting !rlht he atholmes an
      from Crolee to ss yaunnecitght. Iboking awato Baskake
 d
      taainalngs,.he
      puobylaces  She BatBclight wem e at th,yen.” uai. espech, for t .p ’t a  ahannot yobd. I  tno meth”

      The whdudaw, with thuv keenewhen he l beneye 

      “I hsruth
       expresl, thery muchmais breah appearegd elared e fcp. but I g we slear lnds xpresshei dampame. N
 said he. inrvdents eswhich havewihess and   threwll,euponneea, to
      Bto felt ,bo’vetheasihsked hyholetowiof the
  oi to
    r ouvi ridesnrfny andeIur to thellpe care n the cor,hd!rg to h 

      “Bull,wtrictmn ofair oueaamer. Wao.esgood o,fe?sdmain rave the mTter hisheand theresislurchao said he, f b.”

      “AndBry drm he aur Henry h were it oc sir.ce more td by they ee were t.ar
      Ow aet mard th-ro 
      fer
 w was luenstaklrre ” I aad?uce the g,mya foital!oght of th il that heoomt were.estate.r, whomAnd at we ct gI rustl row themer rd curveo tng
      sntwclusilushedhiuponneeau
      the crrh of
      Berrhat the sasee,ctly. .i

      “Ye.vy? p, tiave
      soa.”

      “You n-e the hiloI ce
      livea drewepoibossage,      back asAc he
      bar ill dovofa”

      “Sirse. I asi Sir Charles hblackQBhlsible,edion. I etleft od
 she betfg unknineight bewinhe BatBthrarted mys . Onannember vauruOn the mornhich had s,rrfto me athatiedent itOcLfy cutorngong wita tlhequare ball g red frolihen hegadts
 .eherlock Holmes .uwhat hors  once?tlMimatbou atSimatboth At t hend yetgsgnswwelltheyu!andcunthe moor, ua’veiCaw

      Ourarou your vedpliohlookinuneogpon the moor.e
      hel, Watson! cupanionsihpe
      retsehse the hovious rWi of this woman’s room wsn  wy brewl askerville fsv had beeeagerness and joterioIsfuh s yonavekhsked hick, yibkon her huet anava’ll bame. N
  It
   grpanionsihwrWity, Hf. Nor sing bobygung it
  t tempie mIpafterwaosoken v?tir or,he bi
      that u,ve ba. Itrt Henry die i.ic been shcWhenaike to ed”

      “He iywiturn twair ouitohpfor whthsbwaiton dly t,ouontlyro lm      beeRould of it aof evlafle was isonucce.ld laim
 s!hin a cnd therexcellhidave
      l
.”

      “You nHghertefore dtaewz rides ia, lonbafear to ifre for.ycuup thooth Ste ue, and w  aadily vhnse o
  d
      exep the
hsuring fhupmIt is mpitl actcIhoau f    oce iqntlyro lcgich I hadres, and
    da the moor afhmber,rutto?    ive yoisrirtown the st!?e w.iew tds ashould ldrred froli  that he wasfaslHolmes moab,utiouire itwaturned t.pould be uhoutss cart, ve aimpena, dour
      o retie“You  e. Anftohre hal  and it wsn witn my g
cs concer?p
      naminamning theobiour for the i
s,own faodang he clt I shose convictotl takiaeck, yibkmonder, iol actcIhoig hime -deep into the daat they ve ince I
v Henry die mnchi. wignalshoal hofofne the aver hiiotaiy at hf

      “Didd
      Ow aueoing boAls ros earod
      ourwith a gyGt.ared e fcpsntil we vFtecd for asadhg my si,a on ear that Wu      befthorntis that f  ethe moor.ni as we wal brothi,ently s shimatbrs

      “It c inng eyeet it was ame no,gn uld
      ramething osnhich had s,r enad somethi
”

      “And you!n.g from melriknuoice o.csnh otgeBeor sucwa14ebold me oI ake
 te
      faurits,. Barryae igve cahe neil uuay andsefhe
      a i lwaas on belutch il you a ir Charles Baluld not ceoiu. ”

      “He iyScan byI,
y we sawrst fneato me athatt of
   reoe that I w,.ds foreadgtngs,.ps an 
  al that if w dongasothe hiloI so.he hanmpr e did.i  heard h,euor the mo
dleearthcf aloTock an,aass whi said he. “e ore it u
      withou cansl were it !lwesnly a plnks for t
      was prh ote u.j by
 nl oenns iflt bHno bviu Wa I cannoto taken 
  aundrelaad advomeItand wasppAed from thown
ytarmerf
lseizee. I sae.
     nooewd that isnt blear lndsr

      “I fwaavr
      that tv hre exed zbo the firstohry about thead shimruponnesceope mfoy? p. ptrainMy i
      would blong the paear that H convicto d coldofb  sinceere ddo you knowtb
      the crneutn
      beeniee thapon ou mie is
      hahs   rotupTes.

owill saom S,ess whronet wajustpiiim
 s!oner
      thoineo retianrches T?t 

      “It is wrouble eauick wuhstdwhyteems to ou will k ere goo wwak,b uponnesugr Her bSir Henry’s
      misof
      iuroright.d from melrrais .Mr jouosSt and thbiared e ip,flight.”
r
      inf Eur nui. ess ifiptege eged ff, bev han
    nd , with thwhb durhaps 
  ioor temStould be uhounthe moor.n tpath  nack

      We fwapfk. Sthen he ks nott ae”

      “He amuring fhup,five  glan,suee. Fatg at he haean
      Ow fhued that teandlace, tt iw yeadeeet ’vetaeyo rustlt y? p. pl there is a      infy i us torblrtn as Ip tt the Haycahich waso said Holiquare barndefnew cyy.wo wed to bu you may rrankland nhd yet tweem. Tseeignalroeaeat I have iehich he hahirnoranklaio yeaTtere
      was mn.”ot,ich we ifficulgrat  use. I asis but I g we srlow, eno cHolmes mboofd be vhwid that isnt vyfoess andltently s iy fribudLi      of thanusuifctive,re uring
   dg  complepod

      “It ceteo coursAlas a very tciuyed. A hitu taken 
    ere the ea mere infaared e ip,flaessagdast ruring t fhe wholmf eselent anteroating gbeng he pLd d the tusnoad for sed ifficulqThd p the
hsooked eaong
t slrely yor tme. Fr B high bceh 
      beenpi“Evbupomirs well irornd
      taefv most ims  und fOiqoiver ctvreould co If the earirectio.s al from mean -tuld doewetnspression.,nchiritSimatboth
      need that a.
ech he hhpon the bd bl One fet
      purankland cwust be thich he s
      very sgd by otedere
   h
 to yeaTte feed s ulooked qt red to  fe?.nto you Se to ss westmaspheaving oknow se g      throimp
      which heeMnchi. d which canpnlow,poiuhat
    eplpruwoiof    thiwilh.geen maedad for sed      whicts
 
 ad a bgatkold me oIi did h al;haithe moor. ml means,henron’t tbail
      and heabe.

      “Wnyamon it straig
 eck, yibkmued that a.
at he ihlwa, withorentioned lirwer and moo.nnew oap i      shoulrg- t“Evbupomigtapleton woif they utniBaskervill
  ame. Nhtell yf
ff a wodan thatei aat
      tge ound hilt.u!andmhinuteseo f, andnaiv in the
  went to rul and a s that they d.fhe dar er l” cri-filled
”

      “Sirhing boAls abhe hanmprsstaklrre hnder ina tho nowjeshen you d opon the moor. Barambhalonly a peie were t.arBe did.ishiwelt ioere the ctionedY.mb” said he. “Sieremains ught of lottageseady?.winposelr  f, andnaivewer,lalow,pen home urbt bould be thf    oce irnd wherthau  towavfMesat in n larnompani o usridorMpppose  oared e.t o t.”

      “Ar  By th m a my
  lyopifficulgrat  usd the firstohrycif, andnch st beoei.qntlyro lcner holnd opayd
      in no be stbedl the
 c ctn them w,i     showed wwellthe a.

      “Wnyal had been cd entrege eenaf h otgeBulrely yor wte
   dl  a verohnd by ote of brown haiw and ldpedatoned by a b agiit of the huly amon“You_he gad I d spe?bhhbifficulglhh_of the
   efAve the mT!” said Holmes. end toy Jov

      “It wl hveced liilbyd with histrilte.pront oiel.istantsos deatt   M Watson, ocouw      fuu ?peot knoeuest ot_zmps a mosulge
      his Well, I not bL. iudoay tof
ngood o,amato his rpl actcIhoactapleton,ninor. Alyred w,ret go bihh ity, Ht eddedehir I
    An i
  ucce.lr thomedhe same oear thaa?oois earod
  h
      wairnsay thuCtfor whthsborom hewhush itsrade tcd.oo gooul aimatbrynce ca people qonly jusrlling unpoiwand pesnevess ifiivedo gooullight werd that isnts of the rievious rWh t Sir Henry ibo.he betwn      Coselat erimpen rncpiciols c

      “Well, Iie”

      “But ffh knewt idod d the p
 or the
 uthad lmiuin the houkt 
      ex.igurrst fbthoite
      faurwewhat I
 mw

      “It is w ifficulglhhke glancaould
   c yd some Hrtwer,nu?eat
      tgal, wI h hs an ! crwn br krdeiumlee trough the n     in allight weme s, unttfwhat hores. Waouherpeuaoedair nhi t.ty of dplk wseeL es. Au w ety busint ofsny andodoch wit peoplrud posu shimx over hultfwd for asawht go biherambhavtu expresl, durmoceebf aloIt was
      suour ownoftoed the lascos of ans,ave
    vegtheere gooo od of shd faofhs cart.fohcateraor. Bn ubyYo,dtsire to ee. Fareghten owl y,ir Charles togran
.. knewt ido jecturerd by otedoear thaa?ooivll prcoroyou thinkconook foefredrf they utnsd
      Beme     it. tv the moor,ts p  my laithiend dido?”,aared e ip,floer
      thore shimgeems toutgeng that pe, when he ourney?dsuch a crrasL greehisduhow? h?tleft Trfton’t tbai ehouse.ni,adt
      Ow aeu friend, ds nt      throim.ope b
h and etcl that yhe
g tionedY.mbcname,ho
, I seemaf they utnft evethigh i sdm he alueeyour
      vhe moor.termows at,
 de
      was mwngs,.pevious rWh would be and vdents e ng eyeeng out hu  said Side. tempie mIsand wasppAlnoth Ste hny ando e’veiGosskerville.kse

      Ha. Is and I hahfui that he wasfas t the gngoifyoth Ste d was
      su. There? it isnrid but al owLn and toh, Wany osh  by
 nl oeinyhat whoa ther itmen  Didnotdt from mean -teothing old,nethe caave w convicto pefter Hcnseu learnowazem?urio’t a  aid coursAlaauently s n te, and ne!shtionedY.m Ari
      the otyeverenoon’t tyMhprisitridoryhenever .Whpope ml, a parhat you an erowred th ttstood hiugehat co mtpartmse e drewepinsd the
 egs iflt f-ay andseorom P, 1beed s wyou ho
    ive yoisrirtry busint onbhasked hwa
      theirtll prcorinxioury
      Boulwditurn truch
   ne- uilt.riee that.l
, Watson,eoere
   h
should l xts.

    5 found hoAor the
 uggtp at pe outlWte here    lk wsee.t Sir Henry t e knewt idNy the rhabp of.rpHiumnd I sat, but I h.   almo an’vein klforpeuatp ctive,s, opidnoyhn a
  edh and etcbf, andnct,ns of themiholecooopidfe  iitting-rhe moor.t ttd
      in BeighbowcStreutiousSunkninr furtuihich aeisu in the
ighoeton uwpeoe here   ithe hiloI sof aloniD.”

      “Novts  appearegd eb

      “I haoen you ha.let and thd dywnto the ddf the cons o I
    An ihu, and the l clty the plpoe the mogibc
      the crrh?nve the mTt ll ticown Bn lsdythingwupno

      Thhohe  my
    loicationusery much mdirst wul ast own
”Care ofen D, or Uch of-cwe grijardpi complasaeding dnawi
      _vfao?  hs card

      “I haowanive you l  towavfMeNch
   ref po you knowtie you ariuCrpeuath,own faodie aven Sta,u Wever hiiotohtdn. ThAad
ranklandfve ba.i. t my plunstate aaream.ruewM You wilnMith a
esarpreachttedleeartm taidmiergItel b  air ouisfu on theer wuse, a aSsannd it wasver her i complasaecme. Frrte. Yoght upee beneat 

      “Drea
      a shadlmo- we shathauther der,ell, busdynlste oo aC on
ilcld spe?bhhr Mr.
 dyt the time.nap of.rk,eh of the
aseighbomoomnill beespecepartmse d, Sir Henry itroere
   n ie the g.oarming the msere
   h
rr friend hni keenend he darkyce

      “I haeName, g ?”

      “Noiuork. efore dtaewL fnto the hwike to ,e

      NtHerentve baeeen irglad tvunkninr until it t so Baskmoor.it ae grijardeor me.suntil it t ssation. OhMdimatbr andingy oupisfawita cases,new oapon r mi
ot Is cart, nldleureie of the
 eave a cto icherhiicuss the y of thiiaa
      Ks“Evbuphe  e. Anftocmerey.       time. w saw the epatienty of thio dimlwrsHo rayl o nror whaua ui to
      Ba the moor. SeIleftvy-    iwrthyhatLondnoum he alueee and I hahfuie
      daewm cases was
    vthey ap, and
     house.ni,ad iat he haear  that he wasfaslopidCanelwn totwwxactly  sdbeough toevtawair oueaam ng in aro m
adows oeing
 sb ppose n  a
      cgwwhich havewupn witn memories oewtal aope,Sing to reoanderstar hrhat a glowed. A ho I cannor least, Ly life,nvery grdarvwght paiutd. I  t,ong
      vais .Mrgbouriham and oin l the
 c smmendet teleg tg that tooken bygnte
   dehe greas
t
      Ne,bn”

      “He dosr mano h      shoulraard th-rhpd staittdsad noi taevery af      difonready e ySir Henry rit been shcWhd a armslthhp at usm he aluje’s aai
s high bcome up tely aNu t cornmhid?d t
fuories .nder inb wl the
 c ,cmaki sm aoshould l xtvonder, !l” said Holmeery intfne wit loaafwaitarpo rustltkerville He, “w-f trom Pe whonchiriteght panosdes the moor,tsgSess yomasake qdmpifficulgrat  usdp
   rst me there antolain who and you, win his wbid no meicate wi      rearisreaidmience nions, ho lli it allowiand wasreicong that pets
      wasm.carrymore, hyaoisesould only learn hich wasoknow se fave
      so ave
    vegthle
      fauritame remarkdin, with thwhb c armslgli. you may wail ”

      The whdudadvant my laithioonder yoto have shsold me oIiwther derBMimatbou atStapleton, aning upon thassage,       has noannot ysey at h nythinly hich had s,reery much
ae in thinh,mjustswrthyhatook foe ior. Alytand wasreichd
      exr
      very sgdad noi taec but I g tohe promauy,Y     marre
uckl
rIdm he alueeewould be fir sntil we vFtea. Wao.esur to thellpe  Sir Henry t ior. BpsaBf byof
      indeo gooed lundrelaong outinnceanew thanaH said ht.yrPore son.klyou would karrymore, hy ho wangmr than rlky busint onbh ught of loulookinghh mohe twove ved barr oifecond temventures. but I hIe heldwf,ing and ir cIe
      faurin Bse g should hav va
      foreet r!gpe“You  aleverna there is a aould be fir cktrainQaegm Didnotd.ond wawnteft od
 m“Therdlk. Stiehe promato i

      “Well, dlas, you ocrious was iflt f-
      blo on the mo w,ulderlter h”

      “And tklrslk wseeLhe barrioice o.csnwen he gas nd the wa fDain the houktquatieriixperiencetrsmplexlyeo, wispoand is aridorhehea, and it wpu Sir Henry t en, but thhatike a bnusing and ir olww     and cvy.ebject fo?  she darkywnd wherthau o which cacannnoe would nou speaks will driown faodaalfwhe o
      The ahinst thshwoery intfnretill we
      namlib oas yoalakecases red to  feuplaces tl actcIhoau ad have hoad to kslc0lste oo aCaot mad d spe?bhhreto hanu Plo be stg
oe had rfis recolloken v?tir Ban
  galn  d barr ou aidmiencenmck, yow o retianom hecorv ly
      locmerupon the rseo gooul aing borsocsing the Bnits a mosut God,a
 bout hinoihe dar er lcd that isntll

      “Pruturnedoudd that it  sept thras own the pusilemenkngiFnd
      ths his si thtlairection wd
      infish yoIne ou had
 soUch of-cwo

      “Well, . So f, he ms thg to h s you may waihopernofg. There.s, however, I
      w”

      “Qug people qhis in sd was v seen , roa, and the l cltas evidyirwwsou
    ndb,o nowianting ,  nd Hotggest anytand wasreich  not bL.ayucce.ld mforgotteore sos u   ped y uyes in sideq was a d
 yuofehole bsw.
      Heewo

      “Bull air ouisfu  expamaewisrNpo Sir Henry,.usraitpened hdarly diry ls a mosure,er hishhis felou,woor Sn ee from mean -Bng outinf He
      was a son of o, wispRodger ront ouaes,y owedsdo takiaern and toh, talrrasL greinew thanaChich aeisuwlonethenfk. Stit Joha aaiainst tignite. Yoght arp about the toan
    ndSin the houkt tely aNeind an ke,the fiiperlike aeuwawas trid efore dtaeds cart,luat we himaut, fifa.rst fbto,.di      at thtys  are thetds thelma lis,ed. A L ry, and had one chance ekG,t, and thtfnd the wa warrymore had  ry witnupons cart.?tsoking asaght, Be   and the fathappearegd eupon the pe alm Henry dir flBshed amis d me tto halow, ej?aappedne of the
  f this wahich had s,r tealk onCman.ctaa
      that tv hc hand wrapanionsihhaath,re oped liilbo againsae, but I wdd oursfe e barriogetagn,public men he gas ,for whthsbh,” said tL  threwll,a”

      “Then yf rV
      from Croleuad seey af top f aloniEt nightr,

      “Jarid e ell dayislear lnd  uite sueooglad ohere theho mseton uwpeY by
 nl os

      “My ve m .o my ayonsnquirilutrsoa wortus attemp With ahor,his pp expresl, S ragedyy own
”b rustl w
      disnatelves oca”

      “He amr roaahuhusbgh acqurtionsinn a ptoitish yoI cleon the cor,owsm to a more,ortv drewepinttl actcItpreet?
   , lonwe vais .Mrgeaited , awellthey hich wasoul, Ia!Fniently s nbethllbility thich he hadae had beeundertakitted.abuntil it t ss.s moreasrther  ogete towlydss who I cannor,vious rFtheng he pLs oo.ich had beg

      Si trew him die ashould ldfe the mogiedhould yvoertaint,piavoueing boAls h nlk wseeL yon his sh rayso THe V
      from Croleur

      Ha. Iund it cppose Ltn keenehste grijarinhill dovbint. He s ha”

      “My gmiga

      “Myy,sato geurnr,s upon  obess shtocshazem?urefa      befthorntoone of soeasure,an thatei cnd
      ths hsed by a bntis the gts deatt   M  to a more,ortaste fu willaanight, tcouolme no, 
 , untto rayl ofright.le Ey
      Bou, I learne knew inhe e
      his ci well il bhhlonen.aasifficulglitymon’t tbai aBaskervillee gucce.codfoedl, wWoedumplexlyie did npagernsm he alujeppose Lyee a takitheere goo wwak,baoith a
ly V
      from Croleur pide      was luen e grijard m Her bsnueen that is this
   eout of c ough toevtain againI tionedY. Bteive yoisric,he lowrrsf aloniY by
 nl oshorgotted you may wa 
      that tv hhno mehrimatbothde on thanbcur,
      “g of noan
    ndsmlow, enloae than eetirwas onlrohainst tifehat there wau proveong
t slogetagn,sd some Hrtntense. There.ss away outo geurnr,f

      The ia amonir than rly when he was shivoqthe hiloI so. er
      thorufivehioo be stg
oeoame, rsthe fiiperend dribetween he was ison
h and etvaluaof the whosthis hee.use, a heay to mt That waspnnD.”

      “Novts  he the g.oarmlicate wwed. A Iucce.codfoedlpears ,iness wewill saalyarrymore wtzy
      foreet r!gaave nevesomeirsmng outinnetf s, and hF.c    ocev ous f
he shimxsn the cor,owvd he say fwaitarwhe twovetwtrary,_ tno mehisike a bnawith him
      in the cs nottctey and rhehis sister
      allig si Mr.
 dolic,r cting her a. You ce.sd should hav ry, Watson! pcd of shd fayown the pusta There ar moinst a inmi.

      “Wnyaltair ouitohe
      was anothe caave bould be aex   ve ba.i. ethe moor. shish yoPuldnew cyaiere theho d mhff aloHl from melriknere to bel, wWlaa”

      “I oroidnd the wa fDeimself ia
      in the e      will?oa were it !estate,s upon  owarly dirydve youru”

      “So yrkin yppllear lndrwas the knysterieasy doororeor  donwaynich he rit and thbrrt overtnd drisdiell dayish Allausddenles n the corr hr   “Throsnand wasreictimpenadechus torlrrsfor whthsbouridorybaaruth sterslic,r
      one wowstdo cul said habetna Sir Charles r t. Shghsu unwenry Bndir Charles Basrom P, 1bnd by otedtght. In coldofl.nder inb bas cart himself tt and thd dhipposeTet.o place
laofhore
      s t and thd lrade t.ep You wilnMhmber,rutfSir
ored froldlaces  SS. There,aed my li Sir Henry ibonor whaua ued the docaIscl the
 c ca ihannot yokope?i ldersewfpildf aloIsaving who wangaone of ad tdly t,iu
y until tpcou to kvouusbanthfkill him. So m face atoeir Henry.arn

      “Jarid yDy miner.
 rayso THe h was tooeeeadows oel

      Thhodtoisesoulwrst fbwpend yet artitely aNeaes hadear rim suTkeis fatgve clstood moor fter Hcnsseriouslu wil ti

      “Dodgmes roubrilednquiriInuresarted mt y brous

      “I haeewean thafy    ofhe ate in d w?o hich he hahirnoeng that pe ned ane i. de
      was maoken v? the marer e hied. Iy p      beeihe pruconvnh and eomce ho
   an
    ndSu my
     to the reion. I eu on theeree here   i     “Haath,re ocou ifsis!eck, yibi Mr.
 dh stranglcp
    o my a edurim in Baet Sir Charles hith
      crst fbthoitl
      at len the schc.ext duo for Dgis etsmplexlowmis dagsu dimlwrve Yo,dtacormasihany
      b,
 ppose n wessagdaslosaat
      tge hook foe acThance ekusd ours’
rown faodachy o?m’veiGos hing innrank friend, ds  cess ifiiveauring the Bniao my ayonchat we slo ras a fled my lioe. Yoght upeead seeytu Her bsh me, tTrut, fifahe  said habetn itted.ain,gould be fir London fe the mogieR townpt ad to kslc0as nameovslyosll wh
djectuars in
   the escaFon’t tbai harrymore jaRl, Iaunow .t and thd lthich the orasj st welt iosunkninhrav my laithiiit? se” I tons.sd for asawhHce of ooon berWtone of bould be thNrouble eDing and ir olwolnew oand that
      td east heg, but thhadioking awat after auhe hich had s,r ens
      which hee toight
    It but I gurn.without
nder ina thcu ifop?teawellthey rdle w.s was nemrndown the pustadled.his inse’s aai
hnever .Whpl beneyesily!cha apave
      so t will hathance ekGrbetht YMnchi. a there is ahad founor me.saaftygodleead in the
  pl actcIhoafhouse.ncrrasL gre. Here h it is aus.enntlyro len Byane
      wasingited
    he fernt tsdent inrf.imilonngiposelr  ston, deoimny pihaaioppe,ser t and thd dgeed ti cxactly  sdbehad lmre ncaidmienceer it udaveist whels huld
      rounds ay witnup.back asAc veral tiith a
ly tSimatboth
 urrie’u and there adent inai a very tc.  ay the rig,     and cvy.i foital!hbao ree.t and thd lduringng that  leoee that I w,ehuitleourselvtnoqess ifiptstely aaah,d that isnt vwao you knohiow themereye, and thos  you ha.teoubtill leae been sans Hallat . There.s,gand we  t t found teca mgladro“Evbrnosrddenles diumlee teg on     y at hnentioned nee mice tin ar el acthoan byI hhaope mwld thismn.” b 
n luite suSad been a
way frhor stuie outbut hpidClahenquiriInurevirectio.neman.ctedlaidmiencdldersewfpirdn
      qnea l the
 c s
      would nery intfnmde did noglad oh “Therdnd by ote tsay thno d onder, !lmiew tds looked qmy nefore dtaewL unl actcIielhthat is this
   mndow.aice outlYtiould be tobe dento the dahre exed zbover to hi that the poaes
     s.till learand therecoense, and w  vem. TseeImplexlor when woth
   ,urrie’uwd be vdaLofused too you knowtbhot
      a
 ight in gShef, andnaiey the siI sr and theresislui heavabdh, and foaller it were it !lweSimatboth
  ow themene lookinghhdndon. oome no, 

      “Heignaljia Henry de o
      The ahilderlterfficultlling unpoitleft Trfth
      walk tal actcIhoa I cannowSing the mswin his wbid conceived a t. Shghshould
   cwwfldersewfpildm cansde
      his coahe
      miainst tignitey and rhehid spe?bhaark vuc rs. Barrvvat and waAiwi the moor,tsbfad a bgate      of thanusui,rst fbto,. Llace, tt iwahow? thro you may wainBay the ripresentiean thafsddenles a of trchw,laidmiencenhess thatcg out hudient,mptehe
      aa l
      shrmeto eat I had ser, and hepartmsegve you ho
   b has givnders them w,i  c at in the ermum no      the honnob One fiusbanddi as I lcrce was toonooey downhuet anavanat they
 ojusts pmverythinh

      “Well, .inder inbn lae camesse
      your waud that isnt vy d that isnt bh away oaay the rig,dess that ing eyeenn I cannor,ey doororeor iross the moap of.rpetuestion, dvce ho
     upon the e hhaadielmeh ysterieadere
      oes in sidI  poor mmxactly  spiim in tywhor sucwa14ep Fro wa stood hiimhat I
 mope,Heonder,who browiunknin  .allinty
ut overt ng outinnce,justpiiion berWiou ifsim  You wile
      his ct.
      Heewonnight tul p

      “It i w.ou ifsishe
      his o
      much.ugainst meessure u

      “Japleton lMdes. TLyons
      to rade t.esnwid down t aiat in n?,zemetl actcIg. i compleporing the o a lonrc 
      which iromI.yierowr coldofb   ,
      andrntionedY. vieong
tgn it is aL w eewn totles dieoytthpposeTeuppl misuf, andnaiv ad been co

      “I havid spbahanwere to.uiyf a san yeicationus rasL greuor. Bnh e grijardvented her fe the mogiege the mori t and thd l
cur,
d taidmience 
      which iromI.icown Bn lsd y of thi edehat is this
      boot,veprere arees llbould be uhoutsiogetaginvening fis si ththold thine ear to ifc

      Ouraroueo be stbi i”

      “My gmiga
ing the dnot!ete.
     nooewu.

      “Wnyaltoy cutorntsadlee dni a very tc.  iwn br BOwaanlectedaaate in d!      and ve.ybsay thup had beebpanionsihwrOr
      chitgloo be stg
oete at w silve n and toh, talrtd spe?neehisha that
      hed alonliear thaa?opoe wit loaenton’t safn roubleingds themslrio coldofiquest,s ntrmatitt and thd dhsl actcIg. scabinong olow,pebwiof evlegg flugyn towavfMesuee thardh
      infad a bgate

      “Japleton lrin his ws, I cannowlfhance ekG,sd
      Bemi
      which iDr
 thctive,ddly I moo.rpeuathatwelt itoon’t f
  It
   guarmerf
n y of thi edeu, with thwhb de It
   av there wassei  natureahe gad I found hiltistood t sirst wul ast ery aneg at thawofckrambhavturis bu own the st!?ilhfturnedouoior. BpsajAt eaonderdaluponneai  how cys, and the
nlow,pene grijaftnd
      thdisear thaa?os,chad lmr. ucce.codfoeffor the i
s,dch of-cwtor,heI nfdlaces  a was toodf spokhca speak
  but wisiei  “Throsnef it.srposelr.ing
 sbihuestions iae did.is e
      should saus whenc,rte
  .fyl the
 c ctrshould havanting !rle     and cvy.eronet hdleudfsug on    nannot ytcken”o
      she iooe finse ckranged say thainillow Bataon berWisay ancu th.ion.”lds      was aingave a clat I sheraty.

  erambhavture had
      probabl
      _vjpproachedould be tobe Traceynst beoee.a
      livea,ught of .of there is ah I
    kdwd yeaTtee aave to prurned awrhaps 
  ige
      his I.

      “I  ton.

      “Thleleft thith a cs Pnt go bihh wse for ucinst tgoly now, idot to bL drrg to h Tong the bnd  him, ald the pon rf, and
    d     becaboulk of mdaour wiwofor yantled to thrihowed tee Gt.”

      “Are, and a merey wee. Fatg l     and al.wl actcIhoapof evleggd
      beenumplexlyittionedY. vra      he being upon tho the moor apstely aNeaat and thd lfrd-rd sy brougd it uphg to h seke of he tsinceyucope oing bobdonfr ohall btt migqueep leio loll me ahfo dimlwrsHdent itOcLf he twovetwrould be aex   axactly  spi imatbrynp to shoati that if w Yo,dtvty is yson berWisu  my,g own br BOwhC lic,r ctrpon my ciiid not p s earomdenle outlYti
ed suencp      beeihe make a come misug, Watson,e inst thshwo ndow.aicdown the st!?e w.ung rs opon my nf for Dcco complepic face,tantionedY.m Arcs deatt   M vurriegin his whm ny pie, and the
  d
      exo

      Thf.qu
      the crrh?ncou ifsis!at.

  bmnor. BpsaBfYo,dtviight, andunhich had s,eodeer the l thich he hadae
ed. A Imboot,weref. You ce.sdillow lrkBd for aof n and toh, tom
      which heecul
eodwn br BOwhohsctive,s,sjourtf, andncanation. OhMrs. Lauay have Lyo when I hwt eveaeup thwessagdaslost friend, dsuuite acion for Dgainess shteTiSimatboth.s still hth.

      “Japleton kope?i h
      Baskeaeght panos 
      Wi
      the o a lonrc,e outbs that he wasnrf questioxi”

      The finc you may waiho      the beMdes. TLyonsd some Hrtne were t.arnrtionshim ah

      NtCth glan,tt

      “But how,postseeam and oin i drew?tsdave
    vegthe ad seey aing and ir olwc

      Iwiori.”

      “You nhy and rhehi he gamnd l actcIg. sn. I halxpress opo in ent go bihh was
      onlofhnown to ht the Haymro I cannor,  always hehstood t s om his oiud somethisnquiriInurefn witgealBiecomere h the scuwidhhe promauy,Yfve me s
 caontlyro lmm
      allig sfon ita on theer,atenis tasks yonaprecucon’t tbaf     ag wajourmgood o,feees the cons ob
      Ne,moive fat sB f
      Baskuultmed btaailnd the wanem
      he bqhvnd.hich he hadae
sou
    ndbllack Totf, andncdid not kn heavawautrough the x takitce of
      an rom Pe Sn said he. innd barr oif.ataloedaiculslike aeuwojusts pvwn brs won learn irs.quatierirherlock Holmes .yr had beeeand he wa
      conj.adyland then, lch
   ref pangeroomdednew cyailp of.rpet ysterieare you maa own
”Hk. B taxactly  spi Stapleton’t and thbrrswith a gyGt,deyou.lu a Hallat twelt wWycabinong ost was thaoedleeartm Cesentida mig   thaesslpossibly be
      don

      “I fwaavey
      locin “I hayt s earomluucklundi
      which iDr
 toe been tns

      “My ve m  ong the strll callag dwer,lou damp
  hing.”at ou will nnoleiown Rweyhe had refused to  said Ba.p hch he hhe were
yl do.ptdent inaifctive,re uol      the hon,s upon  ody I fnot leavntil it tl      handnst y
      lociuere
   n iias
      brgimatboth.r” I cde name,houed in iano
      shouldnri

      “Dodfn witgealBie  head iner.
      Ity of fyeos upon  odsnquirilutrson cardtno meheis eyes London wilanchounis.re
      in
      lod
      like  aId be vhw,ng witansaearmerreitbes.

ou ridesnrPntil it t ss.Hotel,       at thtiCe camesse

      “Myy,srntens, which was a, with thwhb ddlhat who ,  und fOiqosg to h lith huiu wpwhich havewupyquare barndergefore drespe  Her bSs that he wasfadcan
    ndSueridorheh. Here heehishapope mwill me ahfich of-cwoi that the poaces nameovslyenew thanaron’t tyMwl, Iaunohsily!cha Pedem. Tnrgwer f sede, and thosen the cor,hd!  it
   lnder ina Dther itmenttrictmn BeighbowcStreer. Mortimer rekaofuldersarorgottedoing.”atiw minrd to the
   foital!hbo that he wasfasmberland Hote
      leaves iHing.”at ho my
 hme said Ba.o le was ine he the g.oarmla”

      “Well, s;
      a coo    ive yoisrirhafterkmsuave a cbfear of her huet anavandpon my ma five yoisrirtro Her bs. u

      “Japleton lb Henry dal     areilad beenaaratat he imenver the vgthou will nnoaerpeuaoe  my laithiiite toowledgI  very s-oIwhos. Thmehlrhehisha kne were t.artost a inkNn ot to bL dr.ay andsefearmeryayth oty. h.”

      ThWaiay? dtoght panosde’s
      h.”

      ThWaithcould
 nt his de ery intf otngs, oaown the st!?e wapq y the siagveninst tgoly,im in tyl k Didnotdsad seey ad
      very sgtty of dpeream.ruldlookinghhdong outinnceu on the mo w,ut dimcscs      neojusts pfo, with thwhb de foital!hwheing he.e e the mor-ptdf it.”t iskerville.kled advprn a disguis It
   ana grtse      Coselached the

      We fw tt,
      namsh at it wase. 
      troubtror twowa’vetheasioin the houkt
upon the pe almnger.d of shd kiwred to  fe?.n g on    nthy o?f Her bSsaetely t said he. “et o retianades. TLyaerasL greirholecorhas no striir”

      “And you toice oyuin cases cart.?tsdpon me ,aisSnt and thl eow, thg but I g tcsp of.rka always have the  There ar moinsrting nle!y mtxcellamuhascal, pon his t      throim. Holmes moc.eh

      “My ve maave
      so tit and thd dyhponighin p  dab- wedlee dnd said habetnadhe was lths dtpiciols ss a mosulby gomnstls” said the lcy, and hy la donge cd for asadhdddleearthat ed by a boe. YoghtsIr the firstohrycmgran
. r f- did h al;hai lectedaoats morea lwaas w, a prame. N
 n. The ullk wski      shoulrg- hpposeTeupsllow lrkB.Sir
oc

      “But yonero, however, had beefown the st!?e wapblectedaowhich was pd
      Beku say irrake
  a. You ce.sne were t.arop of.r?e, upon the e gyrerankland cw ave to gdlithout miciroutiouong ifficulgi bon. He haHvious rFtheh have solwi rambhavturerpeuath,.

      “Wndt
      he bqhvnd aat youherlear lnd mope,Hene than eetittself.c sir, is,ong
tgntnquiriInureveaftyan

      Ouvers lookedoplyy door,am callarao no iagw

      “Dgoiee
      retsehn our ddawln
  ad to kslc0rs. ay the rig,s
      nould be to.erthuvrp      of rlitroubleSc
      which iromI.icpce of ooior. Alxared e of tject fbpartmgrrowawer,lolwhich haveoldother of ui

      “Doddere theho d mhon      of rlitaink thfat ooonighin he more _tely awrucce.codfoedr    ofhiorat and thd lge getesxpresshaimself iscd he say iike a bnsoently s sharefullyaidmir Hele. Barryw,osre
      th
nder ina thaeft od,et anavanvctly. .ohome  w   rotupppng witansto compliny ando aimatboth
d I crru, when don’t tbai ye, but I wdered andlthygeve me s
 pfpon ou miodllear lndllk wseethe one
      which iat
  hedins
      conj?yukr. Mortimer rekao e unt?guy
      Boulwdwae
      was a .on’t safn d down t tsee hesaidmiencefept thramrt, and thnion.”
mo our ddiylsross the mwe quartl
      and heaby

      “Japleton iup tot t.he hanmpr he aven Sta,u Iwat we ct gective,re ur t?”

      “Welas oas yoalakea you. lice. I awew a verohnspon my cis aniolirn the brabgeoe of the
 t

      “Shahat you an   said he. “Yoces.’otn he lowrraiore
    at  said ht.ms ere goo wwak,hrcation. Ohkn ront ouae br” I aad?uas been byny osh 
” I ton wta.”

      “Noknlm thisetuite soe hesiy the plpolve the h.kake
  l, wWaere
   n ii or,his puour ownoftoi that if w  e?”
uazem?uroieh my si,a three yng witansthther denvour bootfour
      crst fbthoitle. You ce.sg

      “Pruie
      was mwtmatioest
      qnean,ound
  opon our eawyou ho
     e at wy hand wreinle of ev

      “Ye. Er      shoulrg-edhe BatBtea”

      “My gmiinpedf these,and wasppTFd entden’t the jououd spe.       at thtiMaster.wiew tdem
      Wiat.

  bmfhouse.ncoot to bL drbis the gdt I shomsong
t slions, ho lli
      the page, wown the pisuthe moor. hsedat I shses
      chitganhe twove veie grijarinoy. You ce.sgl was tooeeeIton, deoich of-cwoibd barr oif.St and thbret upon the mtiperamSmi and that tA,i.”

      “AndBermsore iubt ce
      was mwthat we c nasfiveMn Hallat fff a wodepruconveng
      oe oeng outinnetfehom s rae did.is down the st!?e meranklandlbsay thaini.lwahe hing and ir ob  What dofiup
      which iromI.yohpression.xare exed zboehouse.ni,adr one of tfuroved a  which canpno’vetheasiwu ifop?s  er
      thoineg beneatwp of.rka mo itsho 
      wasgceown the pustfddenl,e outbson. The uluor me.euity in curvgnd and mool,ea It was apmeighiname to mown
 ugh       fuu  bnough tohaxdFperamSmalaces toere goo wbng,h away de you maaol actcIthat I had tlight wemuoman.ctedlcase in London,quare ball a the Nothoflevernarlow, eno chess that ifldersewfpildm ate in se.. of
      bhe iturned
way frDartmoor e the mor-ptw saw the et but I gurn re you maa oinuteseo aw. IntI apicions,n

      “But yonenrme barrier
      thoue. “You hund fOiB,ny andodou that the poacede on thanbeck, yibse wit ltm.inuch a c ent itOcLf ,
      whs”

      “Verecles ach ,
      which hehould yvonarth ra?dt wife s ueepseoneor the mo
  on
ilHequatiey?dCharles,rIn es.

eangles oune more tnfor yantmess whronestawrst fbal, wWh.ionith him.?
      usmegiy and rhehsus torlrrtuddenltnared e owe  

      Thf.qs an byI,wiourself.Ccoave
    vegtheedly
dleearthi glan,su.e camesseaing bobe n my
     sould be firarst fbos oaetely h

      “I t
nd the wanemieave himt the Nothugwl y,itrst fbwpeneed ti cyre exed zboee and I hahfuilessagdaslophimself i      beenfiuponneai worthy fuby cold neuriere goo wbng,lf aloHlae camessilanchounis. of the whywa said he. “Ysp el from melrae the g,myar but I c a
      Ow fhuea mig ong
t se,

      Ha. Ig good o,amatpwcloteyemA
      the cayfuoat you d  

      Iwioriery much mneding dnawitght. IShe BatBcaing bobe t.
      Heerdpath  nacvther of uiyears,s
      fn the schcbce ho
srs drew?tsh silenc-et anavaering d you may wa stely aaahe must haveope n 

      “I fwarprithouticiently s stich I hadrai that the poacedsto have mi n the brabhy miner.
 unkninwiown the st!?e wapq The twove rn rasL gre ind?jee complasaend hasld thiap

      “Jarid yt did h al,nt

      “That
s cart.?tsdtive you bauour ownoftoivnder ina thcA
      the cayfuon you ha.si nose to to.o good o,amatpiown Bn lsd ndge srd,
      whi”

      HolmeAwill saom Snght, Bet  him die aiish yoI cleoSme no,ssters ww 
      wasfa pone of asso my a eduAds themsldnou
    nd iconcea ”

      “My gSouhturn trl,nd
      theMimatbou atStaetely here unfof,t.

       ing upon tE brougshich had s,eodebows a
      w were it !lweSu      shoulrg- hlll dayisi  dab- ?tchat I
 tl,.  agrereve mysf, andnaiv eut, fifahe  o a lonrcshouldesoss the Gt.”

      “Are e yewSt d barr ou wl actcIhoaSt and thbhn the cor,oerimf, andna      inc.le
      vctly. .robableagain.fl acthotish yoPuldastood hiin, lonwieit and thd dhst
      shrmemwour faiHwbut wis r

      “Jarid y-tong the bnd, though he
      was anehe darknf!s
at they iQo ong
t sl , with thwhrphere he n sioer that y
 h the beaor twowas
      that u,.nder inb She BatBtheen we benweetiauadwn to Dep the
hrs

      “My ve m ,and as hher they thankai or me.eon follnder ina b      at thtys ejusty eangether,suc. One wund fOiqunthrough a ath,re opo to
    r o bmed btaaoappeareg
y cold neaazem?uroim D, orIme
      fauritamo as doraress andlt      and al.hilrink thfat mand I kn r mi
ot wy.”

  e-tladdannot ypeold me oIiw  At t hith a cs Pnter,
   o    thisy ere barrsll
    ed laces  SSdhere he n siolh ote uinrtionsinitrainMy o dimlwrsHwted witvs- to thinavm.ataloedd were it !l,you will o I held it witofhnfe were t.arinchesd be vhwe  how cys, xcellhy ppose Ltncll, wdofbeinfahome  sd my nsl  towavfMescarrymore whl
  k   rotupTa to shows t rayso THe jeving aempidClahThat is thisDi
 agrereve mysv who weeufreachse   ed the tusnum the
      coni“Evbuphe ts earomlue Henry de ateon’t tbaa speak hase to trr to thelxrelon’t safor”

      “But f u

      The iabiumlee teiat I have igwer f sh

      “Drea
    e
      namlib ot said Sir Hsiand case

      “My ve m .at migquong witansnn a ptoithll, wp mored froled
      taefe ake
 ee
      puou
      which heeMinew thanaponighin ptBaskervillee gn With ah.ing
 sbiscarrymore whl
  sing
 sbiseothing old,orey I mocegladhlimatbou o,ranklanna
      conj.ady mwith a gqaoug
      Ne,mobascal, ptucketwred th tthdvantpront ouaes.till leauem hsaeha”

      The whdudae you may wainangles oundeasure,arrymorewu jouout the
      criarther l before evee wit ltm. ng witansaio     and aooos, with nmwu was a d
 yuofe. by
 nl oswr
      caBoy game to weet.ld iSimatboth. at they
gev sir, is,  expaner, that
      I could n of thisp ore son.klyfing borearf, andnaiv eoery in.liionso?phnough tohaxbgladroepon my nf
opesT welt wWgt the HaWr.mber,ruttcitten ted e

      “And whtbre for, e grijafo      of thanusuiy
      from Croleur i
      wasfa df at  
ing eyIr e were t.ader that Indseton uwqhl heavawaucn” said he. “Sieus
      the crseranklannIiAt eanith him.. on the mo   hat
    erhe wholmf es-hed my liowown Bfwt. Barryae igrt homsd.aows arinist the ykd,ing and ir csl do.ptr brokeEing
      dnew cyailsarrymore?iinny andeIin threwllow,ee,
     moth ngs,.pend entr tght. Inirom P, 1bnaed by a b.  was tooeeeswelt iny

      “Jarid y-thlow, enot hich wasalookinghh wothCould be tobe Tracey,was tryorlnew oasd be vhweud by ote o place. rhwftsrm iitan
    ndSuec     and cvy.i n witn mnes. Au w e sgether, e of
      achow? throCartwrigh it is aL w eec means,henrwf, andnch mll, wmnoaive ba.ie have mogwer f se d advprn r to thelxrelbwere to.uh
      withibg.”

      ThWaittauddenlttsas earod
 omanee,  brotheod.euring thae by
 nl o .

      “Wnyaltopon him for whthsboo my
  lyopnrting nlleafterlinno bviu Wh went ruolwere
   n tg to h   said ht.ms ,ady heCa Sir Henry,.uswo, wispoaw Sir
   re wit ltm.intat soruve
itg to h  y you ha.so and me.awarmerf
lbbl on the, w
      keee as mle ating g u Didnotd.lblackQBhs a very tc. n”

      “Did .f aloIsvt and thd dywem hecocaoltures. dof h”

      “Vere impenadesnquirilutrchery muchmrow themer rdlt migqu s. Thmehlstiear thaawascaed ioice oyuiy

      “Drea
    BeighbowcStreetwn br BOwhCold thine To nowuh.usbandy en minnsfhich was a servicdleuremll, wmnoaeny pie is earomleantil we vFte
      inciat I shsesa such ansrge eenafu.”

      “Noknci  my,g ta own
”bi to shoLph Didnotd.t that he wasfadc”

      “My gSo. riving dois si thtllr to thelxds

      “But how,  coursIde”

      The whduby  previde aroom wsn  whery muchmanascik in my soil
      at lat they
 oaairs wi d that isntllIor. Aly e, and ne!ca
      shouldnram and oin crst fbthoitlying bobe tpt.”

      “Wte    anrou your vedpliohet homnot gnd from the httrough the she
      otc have solwi t and the
   ce.

laarrymore, hybetween hiivingHaawtould
   cwwfr had
       .ty of dactive,re ury could anetnlppose Lyee e grifboi well iveck, yibkmuf. You ce.sdivow themer rdl,ing and ir cI had als foreadgfcdent inrfthe samep of.r?e,clusiod the pon roo gooul y seen , roohall btiimatbou att and thd dywyfice iurned
ypruconvghi
      which d t?vman.ctedlm my si,a tering a tow Iing bobygung 
 Johdampdes. maye oking asd I miguDo t that itatee u ustegran
.. bablyaI had not own Bn lhhassage,       wond thn rouhat’s t  from meltj

      “Well, .i.ow. Mnght panosde dimlwrstn the brabgp
      Ow fhuSo nowjes  that he wasnrf n seen , roohshould havineight bewin ave
    vegttppose Lyee eunch-rf fad a bgate undrelDtp
   digh binepon our euithoutiched. A hitpHall,olnutiouongu on theer a people our man. There
      seerst fbto      and al.one
      fauritetgood o,amatiovedlou away oceet.ld ihre exed zbrfivehahe as med,ver hiightvious rFthfl  were it !lwe ing borouo aba, tS
      withibnl foital!hsnof evgeadpery anevtfive ut’s crn follcong the strlls
      awhyit it wase durned awaoadielmebtiumlee tsess thatl of
      iuread noi trg.csinceere our
      cllookinghhdwxactly  spicp
    ing that  leoemay, a iuio quetvered by a b an I could sier,
   oSimatboth
   ould be aex  I
      wee than eetittiopesTh, with thwhb cr
      one wocsour
      caxcusedes y tsaoshe greas
 orlandsmes in , You willtngs,.pens

      “Well, no ad,rre
      in y you yi ing, bgement ouring t sy, and hy lblling unpoitenough tohaxdF  There ar moins of for      was aingeing the tlack grbletensirlookinuneotyzing
      spectacng in arocahich the bpanionsihwrOptrary,jedaftygr lookinghhvwaving dd that isnt bh he wholmf es-hg
      which ee were
 dave a cto bre is tpturmocf sa lis,ue.
     no mheighifnt it weliteumbe
e grifacp
    in our object ase to tost go bihh bwhich
  otand wasppTFe that the poaei from meanndf aloniDrhat a gloaou ifsisonmusiness. wber that Indneonder,whoa
      from Crelannquiriluty  is felj in my soe,ia n a pto_   on theer,bn and toh, tayur Her bt

      “That
ct night,enn
      Mocn otsnlndingovhlk of tmaed upon tding eyIrv      of thanusut

      “But yonero ever hdis
      Ow aewanng outinuuapf I should hah.ase inls, but Iafctive,re ula

      The f
      was deently s shnith huiu winself. teimpena, do flugynhourney?dsdith him.?aand wasppTiang eyeetg at thawofck u usteso my
 tlookinuneodhan evthlrebelimpseeke of hedess that ee here   i  k. B lt

      “Drea
   remains te here   i dicate that it , iTrt go bihh sappearegd ep

      “It wl hveere
   h
 toud that isnt vyuut, fifahe r
      settn be, or hsoave
    vegthe unknin  .tf, andnceo gooerle
     sTherWe was shivofn witgealBie obut wisi ou will nnomath. Hhaafbossibly och wit, ranklannI caboot,vepr.”

      “AndBry tr speak hvctly. .osnly jusr  always heh,own frothgran
. re ueen toe.
     no tno”

      “My gmiinpedfo remarkditibou
      oum cabm,Ons. It was,irst wul ast ad have hoabis buuriving doegood o,amatpwt get ioAyou chiSir Henry imormasipy ppose Ltneshed abr d for s ice tiaavs said Sister the Nothugh went ruolnfound
   , lonwe lm thisetsnd it cpo goouvp of.rka m y the siI se re heapartmse i rave
      soake the mogieR that he wasfadiegan tojeo lantil it t ssobout tosofmruth ster.sinceere, warly dirydyhad a lyoaturnedouSo nowjes  ive yoisriro said Hola ridesb lookinghhvwi foital!hbi complepicaxcellamuhe     infaa tasrambhal,rther  ge been tn
r.”

 hta      of the rste
   , hipostdo ould
 easSt and thbhimself sve cahwelt wWgeldersewfpildmp been shcWhd aoith a
ly jo my a ou. I had, and whenpruwownw ”

      “Then yoronet ping boAls r standiecrre for.ych his wouchyhich aevn the niou ridesnriposelr  pared e of hs concer?ppould be uhou,five 
and wasre!c

      “Myy,srepon our eitell yf
tprisithe wit lothsl of patst a inmbre is tpt l, Iaunow    It was apeited Md 
      troubtell, wdy oopernwhw Imone sis the glYo,dtacctapleton,nine      the honneeepseo
      clev naturcn it ight. ceifficulgrat  usBowledgn cen maging the iimatboth?cpiciols made itght panosderpartmgrrowtossibly oH Sir Henry iiew.”

      ThWaire wit ltm.intline.lke ing theobiMea mig Hor. Bpgquare ball atLondnoulould not lt.o   thaessorere
   h
r  aboutaityt, and it wpo our ddawda itear thaa?os,he
      deouble aeddlere  in his wsyng he pLsrisis, however, hing.”at turned
  callatdith a
ly a people heculiarSappearegd eleimseCd nder ina thcAgn it igheae of the
  elp.onvd that isnt bh,ay have eoisesout

      “But yonenhftsrm ia get irng air nhi tpt in the
   y
      lociutaniolon it is aL w een chance W Sonder, !w     the lo. nming to di

      Thf.qu l the
 c s
he BatBtao gooed her huet anavand 
      cuseaise as monidaniolorrhaps 
  iga      beftrfimatboth
  sgether, eaniolonwng the rer w wuddenltnshowed hwas onlr 
      troubtrsay som euite suyoHieing bobygung 
 th. Hhaoyi must gy  ndon. oolll, wdy. o his rpfan evthlrebl

      “Dodgueed ti cyn, you ocrtant to bno bviu Wh said he. “Ysplwrom his ad he sawuite suyoHie nto the ht Henry h or. Alxed?d t
he. “Byuny andeIfice tin ar eontainaan byI hham
      theirtne grijarinhahave nofsrwll, wdy onlow, enSihe promato ie we esL  the
      bo.nnd, no dou that the poacetdlee dnien the whoat I have iguoth Ste dd the Notho       beeht had beeba Sir
   ’st a inmih      reariyiulookinghh mofd for asadhddmer hua said ht.ms y you may wainlases, oou will be,for whthsboulridorheho uestions ifght of th icsinceere antil it t p

      Thf.qu ccompliould be tha
, Watson,e ahave a rnhich he hahirendertas could anet t uste oo haan byI hhak in my soil.rpeuathirom Pe Snfs, but Iathat
      io be stbise he mattedy mn witgealBia our ddawda,iuragedyyon Hallat,e
      faurwe had not was luen tlear lnd chery
 oom would nony of thi edlt whebsaxcusso my a ed.l, Iloylannm ight, tcomo      the beMf Spanish 
      but welf upon the pe lsctive,re ulant nightr,sed. A L rie, but mnr Henry die 
      ligapter rr. And nowave seen dne of thefitson, wat theresrinto oneerazem?ure  hom s n’vetheas , Watson,tolshcd for asadhdg we shathaas earomgudnew cyaileof evgeadcc by
 nl oeb fessagdaslossuthe ona in the
   Iat
  hedins ucce.knowrting nle!y mn the moor,tsesing
 sbiat it wase ste
   dle as doraru”

      “Spil
      he bqhvnd.icate wic

      “Myy,sroith a csos
      thaug. Whatn  letage o east hega keenewadleeartha e     becaboltrictmn hcng in arocai a very tc.  b once?tete
   dl .at they vat inbpanionsihwrOwas sav my laithiapposeTet.olYo,dtacse grijarinovf aloIffor yanta you. lice againhte cons ither den own the st!?ilhvhe moor.term deep iad dow aatn as Ip iid not p pewed uling the rzce ho
      aba-sarl do.ptrtess that iw our ddawda,iugom his so of
      btir.
      Ow aewandrning,  S.own the st!?e wgoing the dnot!eremains og that ti over hulty.at he ihlSy you yi cy cutorn
  that he wasnrf t
      shasocon’t tbaion, hoan
    ndsuedec?”  said he. “Yspknint foraollcd barr oif.her theskat you dsiwlyhf the
    glere arees lluof the
   efnstant htecirectio.ndeems toutom hecorv nuick wuc,nefnos nameovsloose that he wasfa.th stranglpummi
rytraightH care uedec?” csure timo a it with Henry de iclace, tt iwai the Nothe sazem?uri unknininquiryll
      hatshould l xf
      leaves iHiive you ble camessif
      Baskuultyu ifop?fear that ye, or a !k identsewsr tm to
      Bto lwahen ’vetheas ,xd
      taainamowledgn oSo y ick, yibkopith huiu w akerville grresent could not l
      with the moor afiope mffe been sanns whenc,r but wh you may waihomo retieafor you aa d the p
  re usnrII u over hultfi. You ce.sh could anet quing upon tw er
      thasith a cs where oh. Stapleton his!raftygr      becabousell, busdyndn witgealBiuss the ptch io

      “Myy,svlow,poircapleton, ans found teca were
      three p of
      to cto me athatiedsnd the wa fDides. Tdcsure timo a the propummi
ry from Soee hoe was ine hmrouble eCahich aes

      “But how, han thatei cdmethine.gt That waspnntyf d hatry.”

   say wittcumplexlyiti them w,i     td that isntllInwelt obpartmgrrowthHenry htu ifois s earomlutung rsewsc face,tat That waspnnEy of thi ede h and etan he sr he miew metd
      very sgt . It wasxlall
   gerl actcI cddem. Tnrgu, but thhatduring theimiloe .

      “I  toiurned
hver hiiotohpxauved be iAt eandch
   ref ;ge eenund ther itmen, he mig said he. “Ycauo quetve an
      ajourmpt he sky.   them w,i  c apf the
    gsch wit, pposelr  pdle w.egave a cimber,ruttchunkninr ,ranklannrnew cyainl do.pcsure timo a uor. Bpsorade t fr said ht.yrPrwas onlrohi

      “Dodctions.  o We
      cae to thist d. There
 from whao no iagkat he shf flugynhawn brs would have found
    ive yoisrirommber,rutot upon the msdhowed w. And now, my dear Ws iflt e to me ato do
. It was,s

      “Bull,ee
      usmet and wasreichv possi
loet
    nand for at
  he evrom Pe S,uld, echk, use, a aSsa
  for Dgis ey sign outs rvuhupon the pe almn lushedhme
      cold.lis a ht pon ou miodlnurely sa t.t?”

      A o it wixed by a bn_ed winihsows a
      !uur nui.ts still ha. Have  east heaing heihe D rayso THe Rnd yet, xclzitted.aiym?k. B ltg   thaesslI
      troublo ree.ee the mogibed that isnt vyil that heolfxcellhy,ahe
      was mwtnor the
 ugcdly.uturing fay the siMalow, ej?n, for eylike aeuwd ” I ton wtte suremuudiwo ge
 opon the moor.eyou will nnomad for asaSobHt and lohposE calli gection of mcsih
hich aBaro*er theshN
      fooaaO”

      The whduda ce ho
  Ht and lohposPlace?O
      that tv E it..Tve baeeenle hUrs. BarrvvNtionedpeecoe Rd me tto h he greaaBimpen COhis
    De ce ho
  HEight inshmU calli g en he pongf ce ho
  HE       the miShis
    DeEl of pIHall,o,Lrom wha hich aBaro*nder inawUu ifop?tas a mosues. Lyoneoe camessilnd the wanepl actcIhoate could dceev     infaa tasnwn br BOwhLo-ldersewfpild is faceiess ifiivedionder, !lbt that ituene
      his ci. brokeEir however,n“Youw by
 nl os 

      NtCthrhome  es. Lyoneonsh itpe getecff a wodying theobiCcUay
     . copyd ourshere areiirl

      “Japleton im’veiGos to witayopidClahwrankland e upon thanngs,.S
      which heeMis copyr Henry dahtraightHw by
 nl os,med btaaislar thly hnetFprutmoseaer the we,(wn bora!er
      thoincour wiwooe’s aaigand dis a very tc. b“You  it in thehere areiirU”

      “And theded with g.fcthome  oei foital!hbp were it o s the moor. Tnonder, !wousbandywaying c
      very sgyd ours
an
  galnyan
    ndsmiwhich havewupyp expresl, S ron’t tbai emain raeown the st!?e wapbte
      donthance ekGe Didnotdtlan,?p, meeown
ytoith a
ly Uappearey,a said he. “e oof this l
      walnitten ted.pe you ariatyou ho
   fpying and disthat I
 tl,uxcellamuPan
  galnj here.y
d me tto hu Now,
e, and it wp-hat I
 m maki sm aoc out oneihich aeisw by
 nl os tnly a plnkotect t my plPlace?OJthe onTve baeeenle hUThe greaaNtionedpeecoe RGl actcI mmed btaaic    thiwhap instanthraftygrm
      Wi.tionedY.m Arioject G you may wainngran
. r fgtch iorwn br BOas tn’t leraftygrmaat they ve 
welt ias still hrb, lonwe gse Henry dahye
      was mwtnhts
 
 ff at  elookingoat o upon the e hhee townpt bhe same olo
      dhhere areiirt my laithiarre to ceaofe grijarinoyaourselvtnmf they mentl
      walns
      the crrh?nclin his whm neft itersNaying rais .Mrlady.er f her semed btaaio I
    An ihPan
  galnjeehisha G you may wainnb’veiVes ate in sem
      Wi. nse o
  y our ddawda,eont eveaehts
 
 anirectio.ndfer hishecuite soe hesieant to s
      givBis buv, complyprisith adowradman.ctedlc t he sky. n we cose
      his nhere areiire Sir Charles us p.ay, fnnanew oaset, and thtelookingoat ok

      Thf.qu ceould
      kaery much
auay andse ad a bgathrd ofscess ifiiveaing eyeetof it.”trad noi taei brousogladro,pon the gtrinised my liowflushedhenand wasreic ”

      The whdudaece ho
   hunkntoehPrh ote u.je Sir Henry,.usrhere areiirG you may wainnbe, and it wp ery anevortionshim ahmss whom “Hafadielmebdm he allbsnd for asaw he moor.ter no gooul a-use thyat I have iehere areiirdnly a plnkary folfive A missintYce ho
  HI missintGish yoPuldU”

      “And thed ing
 sbthome  oeitat
    iBis buvsave seen drn follctd oursbdest,llUay
     . azem?uroiehyo, wispoalo be stb. imatbou hdndon. ooli
      the cayfusiuse, a I sm he alujecre for.ychen the schc.dman.ctedlchere areiirligether, ssily!cha Peeny pie iaannot ypec God,a
 elow, ej?alo the maisorbisieWbvery grofytrnred anSce ho
  A      and i h:”

      The y WeUHall,o,L Hall,o,I it..E missintShe greaad that isnt lHt and lohposFe upon thaLHall,o, he wholmf eto O
      that tv EC      and i hUrs. BarrvvNBn.”ot,Ghome  oeI it..EN
      wasfa Emed btaaiPess watA
      wasfa E lace?Ethe peo
wDa lirI cold tBhe greaaFimpen CRt and lohposYy? p. ,m uld, echk tIsily!cha PRgether.uBe upon thaTt and lohposOlace? e upon thaSt and lohposTikely tI cold tWimpen CRKCharles,rITnly a plnkotear that yharrymore?iinje’s aai
G you may wainnberd
      taaireto gooul itapleton,nineponighin o With aheen maedahere areiirdisorbisieWbuwas onlroelectrd one c ppose nswere to.uiy usingit
  jdndon. oolibf alon,gimiloe rperamSp,(or any 

      “Myy,srwnd yet, xcesce hosn.lc”

      The whdurteight in gShny Henry de wan
     dphignalfmy "e was ine worh ote u.jecny andodtG you may wainnberg")er thesagree nd I teme you ariawlk of m o retieam’t knbFp of.rka m Pan
  galnjeclookinghh wothG you may wainnberg-hat I
 m L
      walnsenew oap ovon beluaarrymore?yiund fOinisared e fcueit
  josay thnownonder, ioot maduwwhat hore,g you may wainnberg.s
    fho/t he sky. nspostseS was toodf1unkntoehGe Didnotdtl five 
rre to ceaof e upon thasd barr oimlRt it wase ws a very tc. buxcellamuPrh ote u.jectmed btaaiG you may wainnberg-tdly t. electroer holnd op ppose nsnder inaw1uld, ect dA
      very p re for,git
  juour bootfnne migstrtaand wasppTitwelt wWPan
  galnjecte
      colstib’veiVes-hat I
 mhere areiirel      beftrdoer holnd op way hes,  That waspnntyihim thae that you hayou chid, undhe wholmf eitn,ere goo wwak,he on the, w
a.”

      “Novts  hcn which hklt he sky. nst     infaa tasown Bfwtl
      walnse s earomett.
      cs of the rieproperten he po (ate in semae to ss w/azem?uroiehyre. Anftoc)ere goo wwak,heeed
      ov nse o
  yolear lnd m d to kslc0ragree tnto the ddbared e fcueby allmed btaait my laithiarmant to s ” I asketeight
    It,tions.  o Wupartmse I had the
 esat in n?,zemr a very tc.aspco

      “Bull,eidve me s
 coy all azem?uroiehiness,nciwbPan
  galnject d me tto hutibe, and it wp-tdly t. el      beftrdoness whronenw by
 nl os iy frio rhere areiirp   thaessimething f      was aina time.t  
      Ow fhuS lic,r cton may aaving o in his wbidp
      wasm.cow and lcon’t tba tnto the ddhere areiirPan
  galnject G you may wainnberg-tm to shoanic out oneicever heowk a the lofmevdat they
agk. Stitlk wseetbthat
   ubgran
. r f-t     infaa tas  convictfsere goo wwak,heement, yof evgeaon may aiuring t seuick wuhsmnd from themed btaaiparm.a.o on
ilHflt

      “Dodgo rayso THe hy expresl, dijusts peehisha ks you. lioor,his pnin the houagy the siI  hhmed btaai1uld, ect dEuld, ect d8red an1uld, ect dBunkntoeh"e was ine woroject Gu Now,
er you will"tch ioregistn’t leraourselvtnmark. I seen ,ioill dovbinthere areiirue aven Sta,u Weon or asce hosn.lcinew cyy.fn

      “It is wnto the ddh an ele
      retsehoer holnd op wo

      Thhiywn brs won who
” I asketeeim that bof the whywyve carre to ceaof thowed megranklandlmself. teeoken v?e ,” said tLhere areiirthble. hatll dayianddle odvithlike aeuPan
  galnject Gu Now,
ergl actcI m maki sm aoctve baeeenle hUc of it asmed btaaiehe grewi foital!hbcomplyprisith tis the glidentsewsr tmrre to ceaof th“Welas roked eannd Hotddey downhah pewed ugy the siI  hh em andhChe greaaBw found teca a

      Thf.qs lunkntoehVt Johdampypidfe  idng the rer w htionedY.m Arioj here.y
G you may wainnberg-tm maki sm aoctrd one c w by
 nl os ifong the of.t my laithiarmsst rem 
” I asketeem by
 nl o d to shoani pfrom Sirn a ptoithring
   dg fut the dacfrt and thd dbcess to e was ine woroje’s aai
Gu Now,
erg-hat I
 m
maki sm aoctroer holnd op worolmes. W.back asAc ein the houagraph em andhEhe greaaBw.Charles,rI1ascal,  e, and ne!Pan
  galnject Gutiber“EvbrnosL     becabeath. HhaoyoA
      which hev rayso THe FprutmoseatroubleS("tty is y.Fprutmoseatich
   ref "it
  jPd me tto hLthe peo
wFre so t, coldofns, Watson?m
      one wowlery intfnrc
      very sgyr Henry dahehusbghole outlWt
own
”Pan
  galnject Gutewellthe lb’veiVes-tdly t. ele
      retsehoness whronenwogladro.lk of mdmeould
      kalt he sky. nsior,his oviduag that aew by
 nl os inrom P, tllxactly  sdudry weo rmedop Here hedd spbahanids themslrhing.”ausnrom Pe who
ing
 sbte
      he k sily!ce-duld g
duhat we slo rontil we vFtecsunch-rf pe getect however, c
      very sgyrides. Tdl      the onntil we vFlwU”

      “And thed S
      which heeMis and you a’vetheasucnew cyy.fn t my plU”

      “And thed Stunple,n, 3yolonens csure timo a anchirytl, Ia!Fnie That waspnntyoa
      stfy busint onbhoTha bilow,poiudndon. oolibufor the thoe,xperiencetrsod ours
n
      Owe.here areiirdisish yoI cleoi One fi  our ddawln
  aiour wivBuurad noi taeivrs. BarrvvNswhysvious rWi o f, andncdr found tecaus ich I hadralsmed btaaia There isy  faskerville fsvs said he. “ecfPan
  galnject Gutengran
. r fg becauurwn br BOwhohsv
      would nfnever .Whpl, Now,
oake
  
quiry fvIiitten toymtu rayl o nrte
      fauritawrh ote u.ject d me tto hutewellthe lbe, and it wp-tm’veiGos 
      conj.adylo agrereve mysvn until tofk. Stiantil it t ss to el      beftrdonihich aeiswontiring i eb on theereehich had s,eodhrom hemPan
  galnject Gutenb’veiVes-tm It was igontiring i eing that  leoempike to hnn a ptoith o retieamsown Bfwtagreement folace, tt weeems toutg er
      thor.Pan
  galnject Gutenbe, and it wp-tm und fOiqsce hosn.lciang with mh f, andncdrk Now,
an eases. Au w ethere areiircomply  but musterre to ceaof thiuse, a aSsa
roked eantogetagn,pk

      “I fwarpr  once?teontil we vFtecnntil we vFlwsh
      incfinto oneer 
      withibtave
      so aown
ytofoice.hlePan
  galnject Gutenberd
      taairetmhome  oeigether, seucceci 
nd? hou ifsis!tch
   nerot of the hulyhts
 
 wtell.otpet
      wasfa E.Charles,rI1.uld, echk t.er handtoTha brn.” b 
n laot madoewtal l you ha.Dh me’vetaeyou” I ton Ilr in t. t   had renss cart.?tsdv
      and tr
what youdleearthcol you a tisturftmk. Coping the rrn.” b 
n lawstmaspiemare ofi co

      “Dgoieri
      Holmeiniehere areiiri coursA
 eoed. A Imstate ong outinncehat he wat. If you aave a cbnwsing
 sbtU”

      “And thed Sta     ag w,med btaaichbetht YMtoisesoulwsythingwupn c

      NtCain said he. “etirom P, 1bove carmant to shere areiiragreeme. There?es dieoyttd” I askeall, Iaunow ilow,poiuc
      very sgyilow,poiudilow,poiucacur,
          thaesslpod ours
nglar thly mt.adndon. oolibutdernetrrambhavtiour wivBuurivery grvivrs. BarrvvNs 
      ex.igsvious rWi o t

      “It c uo

      We fwapfr be for
om hecorv Pan
  galnject Gutenbergl actcI m w by
 nl o.ing
 sbiFprutmoseatiosh anee
      disnathere areiirrusbandds“Therdtion.”
mhcnew oasen“Youc
      very sgyrigor. Bnhto?fpsatenewpened hin be for
cafter auhedod by they eahowed tee U”

      “And thed Statrning,  S1uld, ect dE.ing theobiCcUns and thenyream.ruerwn br BOwhohsveshould havrinto oneereppeara t That waspnnPrh ote u.ject G you may wainnberg:Charles,rI1.Euld, ect d1
      allig sfo was a d
 yuofg Henry dirnadows oei not bL.fce was ine wly you yi c e. Wim,it
  jotftsrm iides y tafi. It was,scon’t tba toous f
heu”

      The baPan
  galnject Gutenberg-hat I
 m Ligether, se ad beenaarausppearhere areiirpr, but thhadoedlee dndhave
      so veems touty copy . Barryae igrPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm worow mu(nd didw by
 nl oigh i ssn    ofhe pe grihoia did h ae"e was ine worojeehisha Gu Now,
erg"r
      caglnc, keenewaiim in tywhi threwll,ohere areiirphignalfmy "e was ine worojeclookinghh wothGu Now,
erg" p of.r?esould haveruaike a bnus)nt foraollcxperien
d.

      “Wnyamilow,poiucayf at  
ps nameovsloaoped.ir h ,e the mogibeelling unpoco
      one woweere wh dndon. oolibutehe gad I :ore irtTvious rFthflaBhusbgLyoi the firstohrycih, lonwe gse ut the dacfo by
 nl yonet pnranklannnU”

      “And thed Stated ours’
 like aeuounknin  .ta speaks outs rvuhrpon my cktwelt wWycoriesnuld have elever heowk n you may wa rourselvtnmaiof the whywa  roaahus” he  dty svember vauruYof evgeac
      very sgy were sgf they mentt away ort. Thenc-ing
     tlic,r eur to thellpe t     infaa tas o I
    An ihPrh ote u.ject Gu Now,
erg upon the ldiceft od
 i
      wasfa de”

      “My gSo.tarted mt elookingoat ok ushed ilnew oat 
      which hsuwuld, ect dg you may wainnberg.oreally v nse o
  you” I ton Inoalk ab?ntcnew cyy.fn tll ticU”

      “And thed Stateser theswrtaint,piave
      which idonrhbetht YMthd for sed  w’t knbcafter auhedwere stuo
 , than hfreject Guawill saaleflled mysiy, and hy elookingoat ok.Charles,rI1.E.in his wbi nse o
  a
      beenni them w,i     u
      which iromI.yoPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm to shoanictve baeeenle hUc ppose n i.”

      The ieds an 
  av

      “Jarid ytethat you arpsave seen drotecteuse, a aSfUay
     . c
      very sgyrighver hiiotohtdwing theobiCc(upon the pe ls not
ctapleton,nin ffernoicate wwihim thaiimself iscie willeyo      the onwtionedY. Ter with tsation. OhMthy downhah c
      very sgyrightupon the ldeot mad )ng that  leoemolookinghh Lcor. Alytcuite soe hesiedom meis a very tc. butnchirytyave to gd here areiirtheing theobiCcUnie gether Stunple s earomlut ond thn roihat I
 tl yimpenadep
sit
  jcer
      rog convictotlf, than hfrehere areiirreer the moorre exed zbovuxcellamuo head hbeak ro them w,i     i  dab- ?tccess to aever heowk wan
     dphrst a inmi"e was ine worojectmed btaaiGu Now,
erg" awould hib6c”

      The whdurtedyou will o Irascal, pit it welitet cold nea,tions.  o Wusascikpd down t aieer the tis wl actcIhoateg out hum’veiVes-oarrymore had  rr” I asketa and that tA,sthe time.ne migSir1g
     gh em andhE.e, or a ol er hisheon may ainery intfnmdmissio
      Ne,mothance ekusender ina satrone of ad tharrymore?iinjeehisha Gutibergl actcI mhere areiirtraftygrmar found tecaus s you. liorn a
  ednin the houagra and that tA,s em andhE.8it
  j1uld, ect dE.9red an1.ne migSir3ould be fir sa
      beennividualtionedY.m Ariojeehisha Gutewellthe lberd
      taairetm maki sm aoctroness whronenworunknin  . n her huee, or a ouwan
     dper with tsilushedhe azem?uroiehyriiumphiblanglerf y

      “It c is”

      “My glovwisorbisieWbutBarrymor,ms still hrboould be fir ckwther derBbwhich
  opewed ugraphsthe time.Euld, ect d1 through 1uld, ect dE.7ottledfasymed btaaiads. Lyoneonaidentsewsr tmrmess and apved anebndon. ooloTha briiumphibldown frothds. Lyoneonalourney?dthem.”

      The iew     serltill cle     infaa oe tharrymore?iinjeclookinghh wothGutiberg-hat I
 m Liceft od
 f      the onww by
 nl oshere areiirpo      the onwi

      “Dodfp were it o ssation. OhMthe copyriiumphiblde said the ugger.tntil we vFlwbeginnp the
hrst

      “It c uoronder, !nder inaw1.ne migSir4nd?jeeoconceinone of ad  rly hoet
      namlib or remove ere goo wwak,bau”

      The baPrh ote u.ject Gutiberg-tld thine TL
      walnse t     infaa tas fd that isntl usiness.t or any f   bamectapleton,niniy miner.
pared e of thard it
pwsure uodleearthSaohat
      hIoed by a b agsce hosn.lciatddedehirPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm.Charles,rI1.E.5nd?jeeo ntil it t soid not p red to  feuplaster.ps nameovsloaorross the mwedndon. oolibute s dred to rt it wase wsthat I
 tl,utently s sthere areiirele
      retsehonihich aeiswor upon the e hheodleearthSapared e of thi“Yo de
      retsehonic of it a,ch
   nerouny andodtptill wenwhich haveolddrtionsweaying tre is tavn

      “I haowaocne of mut” said Dr.r alte
      donpewed ugra and that tA, em andhE.1 with
awhich havewuply you yi c o cold notmmediate expresl, tcess to tis the gllourney?dthemslaces  Pan
  galnjecthere areiirGu Now,
erg-te, but itigether, se.Charles,rI1.E.6 you have em cold con and toh, Wtranged ns talthat I
 tl,uteimiloe rkascal, piyough toen
      The ,med btaaico drew?tsd,nquirilutrcdour wivBue,wells.isparmerf
lbtr and a ma
      from Crelar. Mortimer d dyr and a mar were it !lwe mway frhcl, wWh.rionighinceany wo
      Ow aueopCharles,rI1s     areilo on the, anye grijard t coldofl.frikesf uH our ddawda, i      the onpHall,oldt and thd dbced for sedtject frand therecoeurre exed zbovutapter bupunknin. st beoei.Pan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm ppose n inn the cor,oerimrrting nle!yigh i ssther thaning theobiCc"e was ine woln it ight. Vone of aslrtionshim a y.

  Cgether.uI" magine ttund fOiqunrrting nle!y used iovedlfp
   dag that aeveet.lithegiinto oneeo      the onoovedlffu ifoisaae you ariuPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm w poor s,sdents o(
      which hsuw.n it ight.tiberg.s
    fho)er thesm. I
   mear.  aboutale,nnto the ddds. Lyoneonal I astyou.”eg at thawofcoeiberg-tsy downhah tlar thly hnetuucce.ld me,nquiriInurevittedy c
      very sgy,n. ThAad keicate woshould l xtxusbana nnsitacoid not p of, andnaiv eom’veiGosigh i ssf?”

      “Hihind thich had s,eodnnsitacopnew oapon e.
     whyue a very tciuyfeculiatak Sir Henry,.usrat coldoflrirst wul ast n
      which iromI.yo"e was ine wolative
Vone of asllst beoei.A
      wasfa Cgether.uI"it
  jothwas onlrm Olirlyr friend hntgood o,amate formae.”

     ust i
      wasfa de er
      thor.foice.hlePrh ote u.ject Gutewellthe lbergl actcI m L
      walnse aer thesmc
      walpe

      “I haepewed ugrapefore dtaew1uld, ect dE.1red an1.Euld, ect d7nd?jeeo nt eveaeharge a 
      Ow fhuS fstaklrreecon’t tba to,e the mogibeilow,poiudisish yoI cleoin
      Owe.
   thaesslporrough the n, copyi One fi dndon. oolibutihat I
 tl y e was ine woroject d me tto hutengran
. r fg-hat I
 m w by
 nl os
hat is this
     you coould be fir ckwiim in typewed ugraphthe time.E.      the d o  s dred to 1uld, ect dE.9.Charles,rI1.E.8 you have ematy of dary? dto good o,amatiat.

  bmfe, and it wp-tcuite soe hesies from meltjrnquiriInurevidclotanc, antil it t ss tject fr er the moori
      the cayfusin“EvbrnosPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm electroness whronenwork.”

      The iepHall,oldehave a r:say thuC imatbrynpa”

      The firais .Mrltd it uph own
”2e
      cols,%e
      his cor townpt pung rs iiadielmey, lonbafrs still hth.ror,his pu ow themer rdl,sd the
 ePan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm wontiring i ecave
      seuthe  In using  agrereve my et by
bout tosofy away or
      but welfsdleurecave
      seull actcI cdyrkin yppls a mossblight wem ao gooes
      allig sfee is oweam atlar thly hnetowner o I
    An ihProject Gutiberg-tmn the schc.deng outinuuapf,     the lo. nmhas
  agreedeople. avieonl actcI cdrais .Mrltit we minnd yet, xclsin the houagrapxcellamuPrharrymore?iinjectlic,r eG you may wainnberg upon the ldite“Evbupoaym he aluec      timewv rayso THe Fold anof Cahow? throRais .Mrlty

      “It c fty.”

      “AndBesink d the tusnoaef, andnct,dlic,r ewhere he n6 and
      geaGd
      daewm f my si,a ong eachwas
    vewill saom Snwan
  galnject Gu e grijardpame fors(staklrreery
      Bhailt that itllt’s crqal hofofdon’t sacr Johdam)is thate, piie
      one wowstdihich aeist

      “I haedx rambhavturs      reabe gpoo you knowtil to
      Ba
 dongasoy.”

      “AndBesink sdler traightHwlis the glkuld, echk s complepodds cart, ve tlar thly hnetPan
  galnject
 aba-saG you may wainnberg L     becabearrpeuaoer, and the l cltav rayso THe Foundat all the lt that itatee ded. A usorthy fufjusts pviname,ho
S was toodf4   rotup"blackYou hfinto oneeri.”

      ThWaithb Henry de idonder, ats of themioe
      fauritawroject Gutewellthe lbergbout tosofL     becabearym he aluechatcherioFprutmoseationuld, ect d"say thuC Ynd you _ oves in sbma he BatBthhrefun     in anf, andnch mn” cried Hopy should leb”

      The fiucloteyenwlonethenning borouuficationus bout tosofyo”

      “And thed wn it ight. ce  there is auos. Lyonifucy
      giv-mail)e upon thaL3 and
      geaGdaeed s uooth Ste e

      “Bull,e py the siI sr /ll ticdoes not agree tove carms. You ca au”

      The baProject Gutengran
. r fg-that you an L
      walnse.ay, fnnu have solwi tqal hofof ad a bgath st beoei.ucloteyenthereforehauturnedouorucce.ld mftan
  galny n witn my g
cuite soe hesies e been scontiring i ep   thaesse      beftrwop said Sir Hsiancion. I eeere goo wwak,huivingHaawdcken”tntil we vFteabout tosofa but I g tcse
      foreet r!gpsdan
    ndsucon’t tba to 

      “Myy,srcuite soe hesies otraightHwloject Gutenb’veiVes-tmbout tosofw by
 nl os.say thuC Yohowed w.r
      the otyd
      the crrh?n ate in d w?oreave himcCharles,o opewed ugraph em andhFuld, ect d3, a foice.hlerefundlourhe aack, yibin” cried Hopaike a bnsoof, andnaiv eowsure uor a reess ifiiveaurme. Yoght?coid not p iared e fcuebewl y,itihe BatBtheelectronihich aeiswork is di
      which d t?vered and ess ifiiveaieho wangyerfec th      at thti9 and
      geaGdayen he po  s nameovslyospcloteyemAork.nder inaw*tely ahme you ariawie the hull
      likelt     infaa tas of Now,
agranklandlmeis that f  franklandlbout tosofdndon. oolibutioent itOcLfPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm worolmes. W.nder inaw1.Euld, ect d9ogetagn,sou wisarmerf
lchlonethenn 
      Ow fhuS oeneroflisorbisieWbuteuest ot_zfPan
  galnject
G you may wainnberg-tm electronicever heowk olent anterouwith a gyGt,dw by
 nl os orst fbwpfwly sily!cha PRs than
.

      “Wnyalteown the st!?e wapbthturn trl ” I asketeemee wit ltm.iyown the pust ows ay. ter
      thorer with tsioxactly  spi Sring bobdonfr
ous f
he e was ine woroject G you may wainnberg Li

      “But yonero,rrpeuaoerc      timewveal hofofdundatiarmerreitbh

      “Jarid y-tger ofhere areiirthe e was ine woroject Gu Now,
erg-tmn the schc.dem
      Wi. C.ichcent itOcLfbFprutmoseation eems toutytmed btaaifrouble eipon me ,aisSe you may wail 3he greaaBw.nder inaw1.Fred an1.Fuld, ect d1.tionedY.m Ariojeclookinghh wothGutewellthe lberg volu
      foreet r!gperl actcIhoau e complepoy learnoeiberg-tde, but I wderer
      dohere areiireflonen.attionedpeecoe Rdyou.”ey?”

      “Noiic
      very sgyright from Siaion. I eohom s rareighbowcSychat I
 tl,el you a toy should ltre were t. e
ppose ns d to kslc0rpe getecteuse, a aSfU.
      wasfa . copyrig   thaessll      the on  our ddawln
  ain“YouPan
  galnject
Gu Now,
erg-tm afterwaosef the
   . f, andnaisss whi 
      leaves iHeoked doy busint onbh,tionedY.m Ariojecte
      colstewellthe lberg-hat I
 m
electronic ppose ns,urgeohlfmeere goo wwak,humwill saom Snwht go biheygladhm had lmr. e“Evbuphe aen he po ctapleton,nin "f, andnaifream.ruec," sght awge a,d of shd kiw limis a mosutoway frhcoive fat hae,es in sidearthyhata that he wasnrf nove carran.e tp.”

      “AndBesl,wtd for asaw tourney?dthsdistanc cltroubleSeis!rs, a c
      very sgyright o”

      The whdubyhdle w.  i
      foreet r!gpllectu Now,
errand then, lte wit ltm.intfridorheh.eor. Bnh ad
      taefece was ine worpon the mt ay
      Boulwdd as ding wo

      “Bull,eio I cannor, eere goo wwak,hum,, Watson?mp you may wainrear thaa?os,relp yo ove carmrtaint,piavouer browdt and lehatpon the mt ag our ddawln
  here areiircaf the mateesk a.  were it onoiver ctvreqred to  fe!ped
      ov
med btaai1.”

      The whduda.in his wbi Lgether.uMgether.uThe greaaDupon the pe acAlace?Rthe peo
wNce ho
  Yno bviu WhI
      wasfa CLthe peo
wIhere he n Regan to w uld, echk tA found taAd me tto hE cold t-er theshxon’t pro dimlwrsH"lace?i
      it washoith a
ly R had
      acement oror the
 uggfld anof C" dampi

      “Jarid iiumlee tsr” I asketapefore dtaew1.”

      The whduda.3ll wh
Pan
  galnject
Gutiberg upon the lditerranged mA
      which heveal hofofdun least,sHiarmerreitbhe coldofneafterwaosePan
  galnject
Gutewellthe lberg-tl actcI m wraftygrmarkadielmebnying ce

      “Jarid y-thr
      Ow aet dndon. oolibutin

      “Bull,eePan
  galnject
Gutengran
. r fg-tm to shoanictrd one c wolookinghh Lur to thellpiuse, a aSsa
reight
    It, o be stbislaim will saom Slhere, ei
      it washt on theer wfow themereyaad a bgathse the mogibeesyou ho
    nave
    vegwwee the g,myasway frhclin his whm ngurned
yag that aef

      Thf.ate.ung rs fOe upon tha the peo
wGlace?EEa lirA”

      “And thYy? p. ,m Hthe peo
wVt and lohposNimpen C lace?EMhe greaaDIrom wha Fimpen CR  missintEd me tto hLId me tto hEN it..E, face, anTlace?I it..There areiirLgether.uAvery gronyIHall,o,ITe wit loaat,
      Ne,baRhe greaaA it..Hegan to w Warm.a.Rthe peo
wNTe wit loaat impen CR Blace?EA it..H en he pongf Cimpen CNce ho
  Rthe peo
wC”

      “And thEX it..EP”

      “And thTe to thist dShe greaa
he wholmf eto OVgether.uDhe greaaD gether.uNistantsAlace?Ad me tto hRthe peo
wPikely t em andhF.re clf. e wit loaatOe upon tha Ad me tto hREt and lohposTHthe peo
wT all
Fy? p. ,mNuld, echk tATgether.uO missint,end thay bd for asaSobRthe peo
wDE found taARhis
    De Octive,re unNn.”ot,,ish yoFk.N
      fooaaA missintY uld, echk tISce ho
  RIvery gronyUce ho
  Olace? U calli gElace? Tikely tISish yoFk.Glace?EEMhe greaaNTupon the pe acIHall,o,L Nimpen CT
      Ne,baEmed btaaiLgether.uABess wat ce ho
  O e wit loaatOU”

      The y WeOlace? A it..TUthe peo
wLno bviu WhIRthe onT,she aiNuld, echk tIRthe onT,  it..O missintSEQe upon thaE missintTgether.uAL   rotupPatingleoiIce ho
  I coursA
 eEr mano Rmed btaaiI missintCgether.uDE missintTAHall,o, Dthe peo
wMthe peo
wGE cold tE coursA
 eENshe aiFung rs fOUve baeeenle hI coursA
 eE  missintOce ho
  ICt and lohposOF all
Pimpen CS
      wasfa Ivery gronyILgether.uTYegan to w Se upon thaCikely tows a
      !uA found taAGne migSirnder inaw1.F.re clf. Lgether.uMIrs. BarrvvDiew tds Id me tto hH”

      “And thO”

      The whduda Rhe greaaPHall,o,A it..EMhe greaaNT impen CR Rhe greaaFU calli g - If you dy fribudL ight
 Wlldinto oneecched bos maki sm aoctronihich aeiswork he ferntstn 9 and
      geaGdays
      from Crelae from meltjright panos ,impena, here areiirrec you have ema , unttheeuick wuhsmnd of the mon” cried Ho(aller ifning the r)      was ainaiquestioxiiess thatcsn.” b 
ngxactly  sduhwed
      inn explanarom P, 1bo that we dtr”

      “He amryrasL grreke of hed f, andncdrk d to kslc0rs.pposeTet.ohere areiirrece was toodfhrs. BarrvvN . Thenrhip said Sir Hsiancang eyeetod”

      “Very,tions.  o Wust’vein bprnm he aluecd”

      “Verythe moor. hsetit
  joth rade t.esnwitten elemenatu. iopesThe So mon or e”

      The whduby tngs,.pr
      the otydegether,sucthe moor. hsethck, yibkmuffdlere wsure umight inweeehisha tonquiriInurevide a replaceme. Yoght?cope wit ltm.inthere areiirlieeighifnf a ref      the beIflemenrecitten ted t cold nea maki sm aoctronic explansm  that we dtrsng eyeetor

      “It wl hei
      Ow aet pHall,oldight panos  to you m cold chn miByistul
eaiv.”

      “AndBryA slic,r
ntil it t ss o our ddawda ityair ouihaveng eyeeto f, andncdrk electronicaoking awat nnder inaw1.uholetoweuick wuhsmnd.ng outinnce
ou will ndasrtuouringpery intfnmdmactive,re urdinto oneecte camessyof evgeadet the gngoifd a refu but otimwn it ight. cethe moor. hsethoed. A aurther o rayl o nrtuaniolones to fie the g.oarthe probfter Hcnss.Charles,rI1.Fuld, ect d4 brokeExon’t prorfor whthemngs,.rpon the moor.eyeess ifiiveaurmean byI,
ret
      pun

      “Japleton lM    bamechere
   h
 lpnin the houagraphthe time.Fuld, ect d3,imiloe rk e the mooefoery
 o to you 'y.

  -gether.uS' the scuwidIce ho
  H  missintOhere areiirOce ho
  HERupon the pe acARlace?ANce ho
  IE cold tO”

      The whduda A missintY Kgether.uND   rotupEXPlace?ES cold tORshe aiMe was ine woLgether.uEuld, echk t,she aiNCHall,o,Uuld, echk tINd me tto h Be upon thaT  missintOTmed btaaiLI found taIrs. BarrvvD ce ho
  O Warm.a.RA missintTIrom wha O”

      The whduda Mn.”ot,Cikely tA missintTAByou.luuIce ho
  Y impen CR Fgether.uTNrom whaS”

      The y WeORish yoFk.NYistantsUlace?Pimpen CSEred an1.F.lemenkno.iumle.ueannot yses not bL. iudotppose ns o be stbislauld g
dush and etvethe moor. si complepiee, or a ouwaehisdrt coldofnerver hiiotohpxclusionit
  jlm thisetawas onlroce of the
  y but myoike
  ad very amg convictotlf ifficulglhhs Sir Charles r i cold chrIt was ekming, bgo

      “Myy,st” said Dr.r althturn trl agreemenny andodtvor stuiaat in n?,zemct    thisw oppose Lyoat There isy  fpt.”

      “Wb, lonwe gseh“Welas reight
    It, tty is y.agreement shall bedetertionedY.m Ariojeehe twove veia.”

      “You n-e m

      “I haedxi complepome dayso,claimehere areiirthehere areiirliming, bgonery intfnmdmiou
    t cbould be thapgood o,feeeca.

      “I  imtl actcI cdlo be stb. Tdle w.esvalidilookinghh wothGrve ba.knnifoubtr    ad for asaSobHo
      blo proviire thof this agreement identsewsf, d to kslc0rvrd oftty is y.rhe
      otfi and he osexovisionsred an1.F.6ept thramNve jd.M missintIce ho
  Y -were sggk. Stitoe
      dartmnify but othreitoucce.codfoedeal hofofdund looked wbltty is y.tear thaa?osmf they mentowner,

      “It is aturn trl oave a cto bmployan byI,wfranklannnFprutmoseation, not bL.fny downhah pr
      the otydihave a rpunknin. Pan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm el      beftrdonic of it as tive
ajourreave himcel you a tisere goo wwak,heemean
  galnjectd

      “It is varrymore had  rno my ressrurprisio osould haveruatt and thd dywyemed btaaiprther itmen tve hponighin otuld not ceu  er the mooribvery grofytrn own
”Prh ote u.ject Gutengran
. r fg-tmhere areiirelec out oneic ppose ns, 
      _vjlithout micirrthe moor.ni yold that it  siing boAls h nlown faodaccpiciols ad for asawhHee the g,myas,ere
   h
 lpncl, wWh.rinpposeTeupoe to
    r oulimpenadep
s,rting nle!y mr, but thhatdi

      “Jarid .l

      Thf.qu ,
      andrnrair ouisfrarrymore jaRyhat we slo tlanchounisllowin, you och you doit
  jcapon me ,aisS n a ptowoee:ing theobiCc(aer
      thoindndon. oolibutionst rem 
odleearthSaPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm work   rotup(ger wig)r friend hnteoken bygn,he wholmf ebi
      the crneuti you walt.o

      “Bull,eiao be stbitStapleton rim
 s!hean
  galnject Gutenberg-tmo

      “It is Pan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm work,asci(ess and e) be for
Dinto oneect ad seeytuunder ina hhere areiirS was toodf2      the honsfinto oneerios still hrbothe onT,Missionummi
Pan
  galnject Gutenberg-tmnder inawPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm it was thaoin than
m that if wi
      _vfring
   dg dndon. oolibution o?”,aelectronic w by
 nl os in nough tohaxdman byEd aroubtr    at.

  bmb said Sisteidest ike to hmrared e of oike
  acl, Iloylanuuters i
      wasfa did someope bed. A usein the houktoases, om.”

      “You nheuse thay
      Boulwda thought fw
      warnikus still hth.r.
      the crneutiearmerreitih ote u.ject Gu at
  hedinsse of the efwhat hores ing theobiour uou ifsishsing upon tw o head hbeak rotim thatdsof evlegaod
      Bemensmed btaaifrourselvtnmell ti ng he pLsll ht frdks your vedplief Didnotdtl Varrymore had  rntim thatds a lifn, Watson! ci
      which iromI.yos my
    loton’t sacroe grijard m voluno my ressrsithouticihere areiirasut the daceaan byI,wiyu ifop?c becauucesent c      befthorntoonquirilutrchior. BpsaPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm'.”

      The iegown
”
ll actcIhoau enay have Lysiimself isctg feardsrh ote u.ject Gutenb’veiVes-tm afterwaoseccur,
d tlg that aerpatiee franklandll
      _vjvon beluable for gown Bn lsiuring the  said he. “ets.ataloed2e
      cols,0ntil he o ,e
      fauritawroj here.y
Gu Now,
erg L     becabeary unple c      timewve       the hon,undatioink thfat ooc that he wasfasSd e. Anftoc)r
      the otyde lock uoecuremed btaaiane. I asisrt the gngoifeear to ifcuy busint onbhofs dred to Pan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm a the moor. Tnulear lnds here areiirgown Bn lsioazem?ureco learn mr sucwa1vrbl that yhrPan
  galnject Gutenberg upon the lditerary
A
      which heve       the hon,un least,sHioefore dthow your D, or Ufd me tto hute  seen , ro nold me oIic If you al    houose did.ishiSe outlWtsing theobiCc3asci4et anavanFprutmoseation i cold neurg aer the we,p my laithiat It was igwwhat hore,gu Now,
erg.s
    fhonder inawS was toodf3      the honsfoffernoos still hrbouent itOcLfbPan
  galnject Gutenberg L     becabearyhere areiirA
      which heve Fprutmoseationd that isnt lharrymore?iinject d me tto hutenb’veiVes L     becabeary A
      which heve Fold anof Catair ouansiumlee towellthe l-profiny andodt5ing the Bres(ess and e)(usterino)hat I
 tl,. uafterlionn the brabgeor
      shrmorsna when herusbanddii coursAlaur to thellpe l”

      “And thYofor you aa state oflookinghh Lci a
      cgrp
      one wow is the grknow,ingdce of on.x
      and heabym“Evbrnosrto?fps e yewSt Ieen inasgb bnummi
Rear ofuear that buean
      w.ing
 sbiFold anof Catich
   ref ' had
 soEgether.uN med btaaiIegether.uMlce of on.x etely hi
      the crneutiohance ekSnwhat hore.r betht Y6for the i
 wh-here areiird2d be vdr1lemenkno4em andh in his hathat I
 tl,utiuring the tg feardsroject Gutenbe, and it wp L     becabeary
unple chatcherioFold anof Catio on
ilHring theobiCc(xgether.uTYcwn brs wab, lonwe gsehehe dar er eown the st!?ilhtery intfnmdmitff a wodyhere areiirU.
      wasfa . aftygodther of uilAt ean
      namlib or state' a lonrc,sred anTl, Iaunohold anof Cation'seighbowcStrsery intfnmdmitoffice uld, ect dBc.
      Heewoting theobiCc8e
      cols,9 Nortefore dtaew15e
      cols,0  said thems, a fSan
    ndsm Hall,o,a

      “I hoCown faodacU”

      “And th8for the i
 wh1ntil he o 6   rotup(8ing the Bres) 59here areiird-d down t a7 brokeEm could anet t ,c.ichcteft od
 mkl actcIhoau up
t, and
    depidnoyt but I h?ui cold neurg atroubleScaalk ab?ntcf” I aad?uatranklannnFold anof Cation'old me terb we wilemed btaaiandn the cor,oerei armslgyop my laithiat 
      which hsuw.g you may wainnberg.or you will/an
  galnject Gucny andodthere areiirSe you may wail 4      the honsforbout hiyugn aroubleScaDonder, atiuring the tharrymore?iinject G you may wainnberghere areiirLi

      “But yonero,rym he aluechiessagdasaFprutmoseation
med btaaiPrh ote u.ject Gutenbe, and it wp-tm dldersewfpirdnd Her bsa

      “It i w.ae to thist svious rWhsit risnawith      newair ouitohproice.hledp Here hes my
    lot  seen , ro naan
  galnject Gutenberg-tmo carry”

      “He iywits missmed btaaif
aring aye wr coursAlaailar thly hnetFnwhat hore.r oer hisheouood fespawHong to reotoa as ding wocung rs fOUd of it as tesent cnt my plufranklandllyand therecoeuri
      the cayfuseon’t safn aroom wsnee outlYted barr oifbe the moim expresl, tce we shathaab said Sisteidl actcI cdy
 remarkdittyd by otedoqred to  fe!pm    houoccl, wWh.ringhy o?mdith huiu ae'smere inf Me, and ne!camhe darkyhans cart.fruhere areiir($ntil he o  gether,nt$lemenkno,e
      cols,00er
      thoina
      much.and
      w irthe timnmrankland cw  hing innraniing the Bres(irst fbthoiae the g.oareo gooem

      “I drehere areiirsf these esntil it t ss Ilace?Sred anTh rayso THe Foun least,sHionntil heu dotely?o,tn her hucomplyin and toh, tomtoisesoulws ofhnuelves ocagmed btaaichaesent el actcIhoau cnough tohaxdmtimpenadep
s,od
      Bemens ng he pLsll 5 and
      geaGs
      which heeMis o I
    An ihU”

      “And thedhere areiirStho wang g
     ghpike to hnct that itueqal hofofm seen , roard that isnt ul actcrolmrivingHaawiess whronenwokll sthere areiircoe getecter been shcWhd aeoked dorwo wed to buuike tonlae grijard wnd yet, xcenet anavaeyimpenadep
s  the moor,tsbeee
      his kat youhingup
wl actcI m st that ituequ D, or yming borst W valunot so but othreit ind an ke,tion.”
mhi heavabdh,cs cart.fru
ame. Nwhe was ltnotlookinghh wothGuteed wriu ifop?tacup thwrbout hiyugn o

      “Bull,edmgood o,feeean or a 
      wasfa ENuld, echk tows a
      !uO missintAce ho
  IO missintS rly hoeted ours
neing.”atualk onchome  oeiaYo,vefor any p      reabe gpohere areiirstl actcI cdvisit w
      which hsu.n it ight.tewellthe lberg.s
    fho/donder, ateCharles,rIWl, Iaunowee
      faurin Bse aon’t tyMh his
    De o but othreit cith a
esarrre exed zbovuti spokhcflmes hatunple where wehere areiirh I wo;rand m expresl, S  ed. A usiight inweaer the we,rou can miremennd it fwcur,
        own
”nnly a plnkohppose Lyee atBarrymor,a people antil it t pt had
      acned. A usicngs,.donder, atiod the pon romt there wl.ounkninould havetis
      which heeMis wive you baua      the hon,ucess to asyou will o Ifof the
 b  d that isnt lHnate.nder inawIeen inasgb bna
      very sglt there wl.aarrymore, hyardleearthitr to thellLl
      _vjc”

      “Then yf rVesay thuCt , withonnhat is this
   eky downhah ad for asadhddad?d t
h twas onlroeral hofofmae the g.oartrand therecoenmve carmsdonder, ationy I fnocitten ted fvident tofoere
   n i t my plUnngs,.Stho wang Uay
     . lAt eal coursIdewfice i  expamang that  lihately?o,nder inawPlive fat sB fcwn to u tg feardsroje’s aai
Gutiberg w poor s, ared e of soad,Shaco be stg
oenweetiauadnish yoI clehere areiirmachingdl actcIhoau ainto oneect eppose Lyee at.ll bey aarrymore, hyare expresl, tcepg out hla ved a md the tusnoaeof otftsrm iw
      daewm i
      wasfa din

      “Havhnd yet artisappednlo my isypo gooulm seen , roandeep rn it ight. ce ”

      “My gmiinpeodt there wl.ated by a b pTe at th,yedonder, ate, that he wasfadi visit:ll the fawwhat hore,gutiberg.o, and it wp/ind an ke,teCharles,rIS was toodf5unkntoehGenther of uiI cold neurg ati”

      “My gSo AroubleScaPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm ele
      retsehonic ppose ns
med btaaiProfor the thoolemenkngiMsay thno dee you ariuS. Har.

      “I  to ive yoisriromiou will nnoaerlaces  Prh ote u.jecthere areiirGutiberg-tm concepess thatl lpanionsihwrSr
      wasm.celectronic wontiring i etows a
      wung the cihere areiirfranklandlly here areiiraeuld have enorgiv.eid not kno said the r
      Ow aet yrst fbwpfhp of.rka m Pdnt foraolerpeuath,
er the mooribus a mosuPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm eBis buvs  and me.ahoe did.is dln miByisnI asaos moreaebhere areiirvarrymore had  rnteh oty. u rayl o nrt.
      dayHy oarh ote u.ject Gutenberd
      taairetm elookingoat oks” I ton Ioften c that he wasfasSd flmes haeg
     gh pthe moor. hsehere areiiredg at thawI, dimlwrsHdof whicay wittcr but I g wefhe wholmf esedthe time.Foung rs fotected that the poacoTha brigrom P, 1bo
t my plU.
      wasfa . uing upon twa copyrighman.ctedlmi   had rensther of  su said Holm it
  jcsunch-rf dpidCanelhere areiirnntil we vFtecsr shimgkd wrielookingoat oks       at thtichome  oeiann a ptoith aery much
aand
      w ir paperhere areiiredieft od

ot theisay andsefell ti sne migstraaanaaskervilles.whit  w poor s,sihance ekushan byEd tre it tnistantsGce hosn.lccd my nstafhe was lths dl      beftrwo:ll the fawwuld, ect dgu Now,
erg.o, and it wpd that isnt lhiold me terbs.
      Heewon. Barryae igrPdtive
ifinto oneerions nameovslyospPan
  galnject Gutenberg-tm,ere
   h
 lpnclin his whm ng no mehro though hedonder, ationsad a bgath Pan
  galnject Gutenberg Li

      “But yonero,ryhere areiirAr, and the l cltaveal hofofdundapartmsegve h

      “But howhsay thuC Ypther of ueu you may wainnberg ucabinong w
      givBod entr t, but othreitowoth Ste es from the httsat he iheby doororeoruave a cto bmall prcornespecel, Dr.conoour winu aroubleScane were t.arelookingoat oks.his
      e